---
title: Let's get started.
created: 2010-12-17T20:47:51Z
published: 2010-12-17T20:47:51Z
migrated: 2025-07-30T02:57:12Z
aliases:
- Let's get started.
crossposts:
- url: https://dpek.tumblr.com/post/2354775066
  time: 2010-12-17
tags:
- metro-west
---

A friend of mine and I are embarking on a quest to make an indie game, and I'm pretty much going to tell you what we're up to, in case you're also one of those people who want to make indie games (or if you're just here for the ride).

For me, it's about my 5th attempt at creating an indie game with a group. And by about I mean I guess. It's a hard task finding people you can work with in high school, and even harder to get the group to work together and stay intact for long periods of time over countless tests, AP Exams, SATs, SATIIs, homework, extracurricular activites, etc. This is often how many of my attempts failed (Remember kids, school comes first!).

With my background out of the way, I can't really tell you what the game is about (which means I won't be telling you what it's called either, until I feel like it), but I will tell you about my fun adventures I have while creating the game.

**The Task:** Create an alpha version of a top-down slash/bash/stealth game in Java in 19 days (Which is how long my winter break is. Brr! That's short!).

**The Challenges:** My friend will be out for 9 days on vacation, I still have to do more college applications, I also need to finish another project (Kizag) in this time period, and I need to write a descriptive post on this blog about what I've accomplished every day.

**What has been done so far and what is planned:** While we've written out most of the story, little work has been done on figuring out how the game will actually be programmed. Thankfully, we've planned to have a meeting tomorrow, and we'll spend 4.5 hours figuring out how that all works out. Afterwards, I'll spend my time writing a good part of the engine for the 9 days my friend is out, while he goes off somewhere and writes out/finalizes the rest of the story.

Well, I guess that's all I have to say for now, see you guys tomorrow!
