---
title: Game Update
created: 2011-09-22T11:46:13Z
published: 2011-09-22T11:46:13Z
migrated: 2025-07-30T02:57:12Z
aliases:
- Game Update
crossposts:
- url: https://dpek.tumblr.com/post/10521914115
  time: 2011-09-22
tags:
- asterble
- math-god
- metro-west
- the-sky-is-blue
---

# Game Update

Just an update for those of you who are wondering what may have happened to the game projects I have mentioned earlier in the blog.

The first game I mentioned, in this original [post](20101217204751.md), has been cancelled. Both I and my friend have decided we were both too busy to do the project properly after Christmas break. We will revisit the idea later, as we both really like the idea, but we're not in a position to develop it at the moment.

The second game I mentioned, in this [post](20101228234015.md), is nearing completion. I need to add more monsters, a high score capability, and balance the game. It will be posted on the web when I get a website.

The third game I mentioned, in this [post](20110131200055.md), was finished as a computer science project. It will be posted on the web when I get a website, but I'm thinking about adding more content to the game.

The fourth game I mentioned, in this [post](20110320115526.md), has also been cancelled due to school work. It was planned to be done with my friend I mentioned for the first game. We were planning to do this in order to get some practical experience before returning to the first game idea, but we learned about the contest too late.

And today I'll be mentioning a fifth game: Vox. I won't be saying anything about it for a while, but I will say that I'm planning on having an alpha done by June 2012. Expect blog posts about it as that date approaches. I've gotten much better at planning due to the need to cancel the first and fourth game mentioned in this post and I've gotten programming experience from the solo projects I've done from things like the second and third game I mentioned. This game will also be developed with a friend, who is not the same person I mentioned for the first and fourth game. I'm confident that I'll be able to finish the alpha, due to the experience I've received from previous unsuccessful and successful projects like those mentioned above. Until then, down n' out.
