---
title: I have a monocle and a moustache
created: 2012-04-27T16:44:39Z
published: 2012-04-27T16:44:39Z
migrated: 2025-07-30T02:57:12Z
aliases:
- I have a monocle and a moustache
crossposts:
- url: https://dpek.tumblr.com/post/21933427173
  time: 2012-04-27
tags:
- development
- teknedia
---

> At Stache Studios, we don't simply make games. Oh, no. We soar above mediocrity on the backs of screeching eagles. We climb the world's tallest metaphorical mountains by morning so we have time for tea. We stand tall in the face of unthinking odds boldly wielding curly moustaches and golden monocles because we are both classy and tenacious. We are Stache Studios, and we make games like gentlemen.

And that was how our presentation was opened at Demo Day. Needless to say, it was quite the presentation. Brian Bonnet, the person who both wrote the quote above and presented at Demo Day, did a really good job and I'm still thinking about that opening moment. That moment when everybody was like, *"Wait... what?"*.

If you don't know what Demo Day is, it's an entrepreneurship event at UT Austin where student teams from One Semester Startup get together and give a presentation about their companies that they have been developing in the class. Our team is a little unique. We're an indie game company, for starters, and we've been bootstrapping the whole development process so far.

I wasn't with them the whole time though; I only joined them last January, approximately. I knew them because they were all part of a organization called EGaDS, the Electronic Game Developer's Society, which I had recently joined. At work nights, I would see them working on Teknedia. Naturally, I got interested in what was going on and before I knew it I was trying to join their team. I ended up taking the One Semester Startup class with them and everything since then has been a blur. Well, I guess that might be partly due to college. Or maybe it was the programming sessions on Saturdays. Its been fun.

College is starting to wrap up this year, but there's still much to do. This summer will be exciting.
