---
title: Glass Bubble Week 13
created: 2014-09-30T16:02:22Z
published: 2014-09-30T16:02:22Z
migrated: 2025-07-30T02:57:12Z
aliases:
- Glass Bubble Week 13
crossposts:
- url: https://dpek.tumblr.com/post/99855677588
  time: 2014-09-30
tags:
- baskiv
- glass-bubble
---

# Glass Bubble Week 13

This is development week thirteen out of eighteen for Glass Bubble. The previous week's devlog can be found [here](20140924064718.md).

This week I decided to start getting some voice over work done for the game. I got a friend who was interested and we recorded some of Kelsi's voice overs. It was pretty fun and exciting for me to hear someone else speak the language I have been working on relatively coherently. Sadly, the room we recorded in was awful (a room with a whiteboard wall, a glass wall, a bare plaster wall, and a wall with a big window in it) and I need to get my hands on better recording equipment (I was using my Macbook Air). We also didn't completely finish recording all of Kelsi's lines and after we listened to the audio in the game we decided some of the lines need to be re-done anyway.

For Pik and Daedor, I'm trying to get into contact with a voice actor that we worked with on [Port of Call](../notes/port-of-call.md). Whether or not he will be interested kind of makes me nervous, especially because I realize I don't have any upfront funds to pay anyone who is working on this game with. To be clear, should the game make money I plan to pay everyone who contributed some percentage of the profits, but I also don't think I'm planning on charging for the demo. Perhaps I'll just stick it on itch.io as pay what you want and see what happens.

For Grim, I'm planning on doing that voice over by myself. I feel more comfortable assuming the voice acting role for Grim because I'm also planning on distorting his voice a lot. For Wanda, I'm planning on doing no voice over. I'm not sure if this is a good decision yet, but for now I don't think I have the time to record Wanda's voiceovers, especially because then I need to make sure Wanda's lines sound like they are having a conversation with whoever she is talking to.
