---
title: Glass Bubble Week 15
created: 2014-10-12T22:51:42Z
published: 2014-10-12T22:51:42Z
migrated: 2025-07-30T02:57:12Z
aliases:
- Glass Bubble Week 15
crossposts:
- url: https://dpek.tumblr.com/post/99855755238
  time: 2014-10-12
tags:
- baskiv
- glass-bubble
---

This is development week fifteen out of eighteen for Glass Bubble. Last week's devlog was not written, but the previous devlog can be found [post=40]here[/post].

Last week was an extremely busy week for me. I had 3 tests, an interview with a company for a full time job, and a career fair event. This next coming week seems just as busy; the school workload feels quite heavy now.

Apparently I wasn't the only one who was busy. Jacques, one of the voice actors I'm trying to work with, went through what he described as "hell week" and Marlena had a large school workload like I did.

This last week I tried to get my hands on some audio equipment, but the microphone my friend lent me has a broken usb cord and the fine arts library at the school didn't seem to have any microphones at all that they could lend me. My music theory teacher suggested I get a Zoom field recorder, but it's about $300 and I'm not really interested in that arrangement. Instead, I'm planning on ordering a pop filter and a new usb cord.

Thankfully, Jacques seems very interested in helping so right now I'm trying to set up an appointment to meet with him to discuss characters and the Baskiv language (which I still need a better name for). I've translated all of the scripts except some for Pik's and Grim's. Pik only has a couple of lines left to be translated. Marlena will try to get me an animation of Daedor this week. I'm pretty excited to see what that will look like in game.

Anyway, that being said, I don't seem to have done much the last two weeks. Now that it's the fifteenth week into this project it's pretty obvious that I'm not going to finish this game on time. I only have 3 weeks left.

I'm going to have to extend the deadline for this game, but until when I'm not sure. I'm getting more and more busy and I haven't done enough coding for the game yet. I would hate to suggest delaying the game until the end of winter break as previous experience suggests I never get anything done when I plan to do so. But, if I can't finish it then, I'll probably be in the game development capstone course again and that will take priority. This means that the game wouldn't get finished until I finished that, which would take the rest of the spring semester.

All in all, things look pretty bleak for the completion of this game. I feel like I scoped it small enough to finish in time, but it seems I have underestimated how quickly I could get assets made for this game. This disappoints me, especially as I already know how long assets take to make. Next time I will have to be more conscious about these factors.
