---
title: Glass Bubble Week 8
created: 2014-08-26T02:44:30Z
published: 2014-08-26T02:44:30Z
migrated: 2025-07-30T02:57:12Z
aliases:
- Glass Bubble Week 8
crossposts:
- url: https://dpek.tumblr.com/post/96457772218
  time: 2014-08-26
tags:
- glass-bubble
---

# Glass Bubble Week 8

This is development week eight out of eighteen for Glass Bubble. The previous week's devlog was not written, but you can find the devlog for week six [here](20140810225856.md).

Still behind on the work I need to do for Glass Bubble. In fact, I'm now two weeks behind.

I had a couple things happen last week that prevented me from working on anything much. My summer internship at Microsoft ended and when I came back home I moved to a new place in Austin.

So, I've been spending most of my time settling in, getting ready for another year of college, and whatnot.

This week I finished writing a draft for Daedor's and Pik's scripts. I'm not really happy with the way they turned out, but editing is always easier to do once you have something down.

I tried to write Pik in as a character who understands what is going on and is incredibly jaded. He's gone through so much, is defeated, and can't think of a reason to go against what you are about to do. For example, this is one of the last things he says to Wanda:
[script]
Pik: You need confirmation that I'm who you are looking for, right?
Pik: Well, you've found me.
Pik: The name is Pik.
Pik: Do what you have to.
He turns his back and takes one last swig of the ale
Pik: It's only logical that I'm next.
[/script]

I also noticed that I started to make most of the examine scripts as well as narration text more stylistically "poetic" like Grim's script.

Another thing that I've found amusing is the subtle difference in how text is presented to the player. Speech always has punctuation marks and narration never has punctuation marks. In menu choices this helps me differentiate the choices between actions and speech.

Since I'm running behind on time, I'm going to skip writing minor character dialog. Instead, next week I'll be working on the sprite for Wanda.
