---
title: Glass Bubble Week 2
created: 2014-07-20T01:53:46Z
published: 2014-07-20T01:53:46Z
migrated: 2025-07-30T02:57:12Z
aliases:
- Glass Bubble Week 2
crossposts:
- url: https://dpek.tumblr.com/post/92963196463
  time: 2014-07-20
tags:
- glass-bubble
---

This is development week two out of eighteen for Glass Bubble. The previous week's devlog can be found [here](20140711060757.md).

This week I didn't get much done, especially because I attended a couple of things during the week and weekend that ate up a lot of my time, which is why this devlog entry is so late. Fortunately, I got much more work done in the first week then expected, so I'm still doing ok on time. On the not-so-fortunate side, this blog entry will be rather brief.

I decided to implement parallax this week, which was suprisingly easy to do once I decided to use a perspective camera. The only problem was that I had to mess with the z positions of objects in order to make them appear correctly. For example, shadows were previously created 0.5f units behind the object that casted the shadow. While this looked fine through an orthographic camera, this distance was big enough that through a perspective camera the shadow did not look like it was casted by the object. This was easily fixed for shadows and other elements in the game by reducing the z offset.

The other thing I did this week was write a pretty lengthy blog post about how I implemented hard shadows. If you're interested in seeing that, you can see that post [here](20140719234308.md). I also made quite a few improvements to the site in order to accommodate that post such as being able to view code with line numbers on the side.

For week 3 I am planning to get a good amount of the UI framework for opening a dialog finished so that the first script in the game can be viewed.
