---
title: Access Performance
published: 2017-11-22T23:01Z
created: 2017-11-22T23:01Z
migrated: 2024-09-24T23:37:00Z
aliases:
- Access Performance
crossposts:
- url: https://www.patreon.com/posts/15485579
  time: 2017-11-22T23:01Z
tags:
- access
- patreon
---

> [!info]
> This post was originally intended for a [Patreon](../tags/patreon.md) audience.

# Access Performance

I haven't been posting very often lately because I spent a lot of work in the last few weeks working on quality-of-life stuff that will indirectly make the game a much better experience. Each improvement didn't really make a super interesting post, but all of them together make a nice little thing.

# Loading Screen

One of the biggest motivations for all of these changes was to improve the performance of the game. Since I wanted to target mobile, this was especially important. The first hitch in gameplay I noticed was when I'd start a dialog with a character. Since I was compiling Rumor scripts on-demand, the game had to pause while that was being completed.

So, I decided to pre-compile the scripts in a loading screen. In addition, I took a look at optimizing the performance of the Rumor compiler. Compilation of one of the scripts from the game was reduced from 6600 ms to just 26 ms, which is a fantastic improvement. Loading screens on mobile devices, such as my cell phone, no longer take a long time.

# File Size

File size of the application was also very important to me. This is especially true on mobile, where people have much more limited space than on a desktop. Sadly, Unity is not so great at the file size of the built game. For example, for an empty Unity project, the size is already rather large:

```
Windows x86       34.3 MB ( 35,998,253 bytes)
Windows x86_64    39.3 MB ( 41,294,893 bytes)
MacOSX x86        44.9 MB ( 47,089,435 bytes)
MacOSX x86_64     45.9 MB ( 48,451,584 bytes)
MacOSX Universal  78.8 MB ( 82,661,106 bytes)
Linux x86         46.1 MB ( 48,395,582 bytes)
Linux x86_64      45.4 MB ( 47,648,929 bytes)
Linux Universal   80.0 MB ( 83,909,100 bytes)
Android APK       21.4 MB ( 22,540,490 bytes)
```

When you add the size of Access before I optimized it, the size of the application looks rather ridiculous for such a simple-looking game:

```
Windows x86       51.0 MB ( 53,481,469 bytes)
Windows x86_64    56.9 MB ( 59,767,886 bytes)
MacOSX x86        60.7 MB ( 63,711,723 bytes)
MacOSX x86_64     61.8 MB ( 64,807,359 bytes)
MacOSX Universal  94.6 MB ( 99,283,391 bytes)
Linux x86         61.9 MB ( 65,008,613 bytes)
Linux x86_64      61.2 MB ( 64,261,960 bytes)
Linux Universal   95.8 MB (100,522,131 bytes)
Android APK       34.4 MB ( 36,157,014 bytes)
```
I took some time to take out things that weren't necessarily needed and changed lots of Unity settings. The file size of the game is now much more tolerable.

```
Windows x86       38.8 MB ( 40,777,932 bytes)
Windows x86_64    43.9 MB ( 46,074,574 bytes)
MacOSX x86        49.4 MB ( 51,899,552 bytes)
MacOSX x86_64     50.5 MB ( 52,995,189 bytes)
MacOSX Universal  83.4 MB ( 87,471,216 bytes)
Linux x86         50.7 MB ( 53,202,640 bytes)
Linux x86_64      50.0 MB ( 52,455,952 bytes)
Linux Universal   84.6 MB ( 88,716,124 bytes)
Android APK       22.9 MB ( 24,027,686 bytes)
```

Hopefully, in the future, I will find more ways to convince Unity to build a smaller application.

# Graphics

I also inspected the frame debugger built into Unity and found several rendering problems that caused the game to have a low frame rate on mobile devices. I fixed quite a few problems with too many draw calls and simplified a lot rendering code. The result is that on my mobile device, Access runs rather smoothly now.