---
title: Tankmeld Release & Post-Mortem
published: 2017-10-01T05:00Z
created: 2017-10-01T05:00Z
migrated: 2024-09-24T21:19:18Z
aliases:
- Tankmeld Release & Post-Mortem
crossposts:
- url: https://www.patreon.com/posts/14637822
  time: 2017-10-01T05:00Z
tags:
- patreon
- tankmeld
---

> [!info]
> This post was originally intended for a [Patreon](../tags/patreon.md) audience.

# Tankmeld Release & Post-Mortem

Tankmeld is now on itch.io: [https://exodrifter.itch.io/tankmeld](https://exodrifter.itch.io/tankmeld)

---

I never wanted to spend very long on this game. While it was a fun idea, I didn't think I would enjoy making it for very long, so I limited myself to a month. It would be good as a first project to start getting back into things, and a great way to give something back to my first patrons.

I think this was a bad decision on my part, and the rather rushed development shows itself in the game, through missing quality-of-life features, so I'm not very proud of it. Too much time was spent messing around with terrible input APIs, which I might post a rant about later. Instead, I wanted to write one myself and ended up using the XInput library, which is why the game is Windows only, which really sucks.

I think I need both more time and more investment in games I make in the future, and while I'm rather ashamed of this game, I think I have learned a lesson.

On the bright side, the game has allowed me time to compile all of my utility code, which should be super helpful for games in the future. It will probably show up on github after I use it a few more times.

Anyway, that's all for now. Thanks for the reading the rather somber post (haha...). Keep your eyes peeled for posts about City Haiku and Access, coming soon!
