---
title: What should I work on in October?
published: 2017-09-21T22:00Z
created: 2017-09-21T22:00Z
migrated: 2024-09-24T21:15:24Z
aliases:
- What should I work on in October?
crossposts:
- url: https://www.patreon.com/posts/14352805
  time: 2017-09-21T22:00Z
tags:
- patreon
---

> [!info]
> This post was originally intended for a [Patreon](../tags/patreon.md) audience.

# What should I work on in October?

My schedule is pretty packed since I'm planning to release a game each month this year (In addition to doing contract work - whew!). At the end of this month, it will be [Tankmeld](../tags/tankmeld.md). At the end of December (or maybe January), I want to release [Access](../tags/access.md). In between, I have all these great game ideas and I don't really know which one I want to do first, which is what this poll is for. What game do you want me to work on in October? The one with the most votes will be the one I'll work on. Poll ends in three days, and more detailed descriptions are below.

---

The first idea is pretty self-explanatory. It's based on my experience going to game dev events in Austin both before and after I graduated from college. It's mostly a light-hearted game that I want to make mostly just want to see if I can creep out local game devs with how uncannily similar the dialog is to, well, the real thing. And yeah, I'm totally planning on bringing this to [Juegos Rancheros](http://juegosrancheros.com/). Meta much?

The second idea is more introspective and exploration-focused. A lot of this game will draw on my experience visiting Japan. I want to give the player some sense of captivation and awe while basically being lost and idly walking around. Also, haikus. Lots and lots of _bad_ haikus. It's going to be the best.

The third game idea is an experiment to see if I can make a novel city-building game that focuses on team coordination rather than sandbox mechanics. I want it to be really silly but also challenging. I imagine the game to be rather fast paced, maybe 15 minutes per game with up to four players. Coordination would probably involve coordination of trade and armies. Local co-op only, for now.
