---
title: sickness, moving, and rambling
created: 2024-09-25T02:10:36Z
published: 2018-08-29T00:00Z
aliases:
- sickness, moving, and rambling
crossposts:
- url: https://www.patreon.com/posts/21046861
  time: 2018-08-29T00:00Z
tags:
- access
- patreon
---

> [!info]
> This post was originally intended for a [Patreon](../tags/patreon.md) audience.

# sickness, moving, and rambling

I haven't been particularly active on Patreon this week. Oops.

# Sickness

I seem to get sick a lot. I went to the doctor recently to find out why I've been feeling nauseous, lightheaded, and dizzy all weekend and they ordered some labs so we can diagnose what's wrong.

The first lab came back with the result of "you are _very_ dehydrated". I know it's basically Hell on Earth in Texas, but I've been trying my best to stay inside and stay hydrated. I have a follow-up appointment to see if there's anything else we can do about it. For now I'm drinking an excessive amount of sports drinks.

That's not the only lab though, because apparently several other people have come in with similar symptoms as me. So, I'm still waiting on the results of another lab that will tell us if I've got the same thing that's been going around.

Also, nothing I do seems to ease the symptoms very much and they are slowly getting worse. Fun.

# Moving

I'm helping my partner move to the city I live in. There are a lot of reasons for doing this, but notably for me, I won't have to drive to another town to pick her up and drop her off every week. This should save about 4-5 hours every week. Also, now we can hang out more often.

However, the apartment complex we are moving to is generally unfriendly and unhelpful. They've changed the move-in date, answered our questions in opaque ways, and won't suggest solutions to their _own problems_ until we suggest something that could work. Anyway, I'm a little frustrated about all of that.

I'm also renting a U-Haul for the first time. Who knew.

# Rambling

I did manage to keep streaming for the first half of this month, but I've been busy trying to finish up the contracting work I accepted a few months ago. It's even more frustrating now that I'm sick and essentially can't record anything.

Concentrating on finishing the contracting work means I haven't looked at the code for Access in a very long time. That isn't the real issue though, I think. Lets say I finished the contracting work today and I was free to work on Access again. I would still feel reluctant to look at the code.

I'm not trying to say that I'm no longer interested in the idea of Access. The problem is that I don't enjoy how difficult it is to make a polished UI in Unity. The UI system in Unity has a few bugs that are, in my opinion, really degrade the desired experience in Access.

This has made me want to write my own game engine, but that's a whole ton of work. More reasonably, I may have to spend some time finding or making a different UI system to use.

As an aside, thinking about making my own game engine also makes me feel like making a new game. Recently, I've been toying around with the idea of a combat game where all of the bosses you fight refuse to believe in the gender the player has chosen for their character. I feel like this would be an empowering experience for transgender people as well as a way to relate how gender dysphoria feels to cisgender people.

Anyway, I'm very sorry for the lack of progress in the last few weeks and thank you for continuing to support this weird, sickly game dev/musician. Here's to hoping next month is more productive.