---
title: Access Main Menu
created: 2024-09-25T00:13:17Z
published: 2018-02-21T20:57Z
aliases:
- Access Main Menu
crossposts:
- url: https://www.patreon.com/posts/17131491
  time: 2018-02-21T20:57Z
tags:
- access
- patreon
---

# Access Main Menu

<div style="padding:56.25% 0 0 0;position:relative;"><iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/578699621?badge=0&amp;autopause=0&amp;player_id=0&amp;app_id=58479" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; fullscreen; picture-in-picture; clipboard-write" style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;" title="Access Main Menu"></iframe></div><script src="https://player.vimeo.com/api/player.js"></script>

Since I got back from vacation, I found myself dissatisfied with Access. It felt like a stomach ache every time I thought of working on it. Part of it was due to some of the horrible, disgusting code I wrote and another part was my dissatisfaction with Unity.

I decided to think about writing my own game engine and I started learning Rust for a while, but decided to not proceed with that plan (as much as I would like to) due to the relative maturity and support of Rust compared to Unity.

Then, I decided to use Unity again and rewrite the project from scratch. No big deal, right? Then I also started dating someone for the first time ever, which, you know, has obviously had no effect on my productivity. So, I forgot to push some updates out for a while. My apologies.

Every time I re-implemented a feature, I ended up adding even more things to it to make it better, which has caused the rewrite to take a much longer time.  The rewrite of Access has gone pretty swimmingly otherwise.  Almost everything has been re-implemented with a tastier UI and more appetizing code, like the main menu!

Now it asks you ahead of time before the game even starts about what accessibility options you would like to have enabled (UI). It even has nice little parts that will detect if we are on a dev build and therefore should do a demo (code).

Bridgette and I will be meeting later today to talk about the first level and when/where we would like to playtest the vertical slice once it's done as I am nearing completion. It's very exciting and I can't wait to show you what the first level looks like now!
