---
title: Tier Changes
published: 2019-12-22T20:14Z
created: 2019-12-22T20:14Z
migrated: 2024-09-25T05:12:01Z
aliases:
- Tier Changes
crossposts:
- url: https://www.patreon.com/posts/32546598
  time: 2019-12-22T20:14Z
tags:
- patreon
---

> [!info]
> This post was originally intended for a [Patreon](../tags/patreon.md) audience.

# Tier Changes

Hello, skeletons!

Just wanted to give you all advance notice of some tier changes that I would like to make, as well as get your feedback before those changes are made.

When I first launched my Patreon page, I initially set up the pledge tiers by following Patreon's recommendations in their Creator FAQ. But, after a little over two years of using these tiers, I have a few complaints of my own. In particular:

- Sometimes it's hard to remember what each tier is since there are so many of them and several of them are quite similar. For example, what is the difference between "Behind-the-scenes content" and "Patron-only posts"? The answer for that question is not clear to me.
- It's harder to build a community since you _must_ be a patron to have access to the Discord server.
- The theming of the tiers does not match how the patrons identify now, and I would like to reinforce that theme more (If you're not familiar, it was decided in the discord server that fans/patrons are skeletons and not abstract geometric shapes).

I would like to fix these problems by introducing a new set of tiers next year  First, I'll talk about the benefits which would no longer be patron-only and then I'll explain the new tiers which will replace the ones we currently have on Patreon.  I think these changes will be good, but please let me know what you think in the poll _and_ in the comments below. I'm looking forward to your feedback; I wouldn't want to make this change without your input first.

The poll will end at January 17th 12:00 PM Central. If it seems like the majority of my patrons are okay with this change (counting no-votes as approval), then these changes will go into effect around late January, probably on the 24th or 25th. I will also update the rest of my Patreon page around that time; it's been a long time since it has seen any love!

# Removed Patron-only benefits

As mentioned earlier, the Discord server would be open to the public instead of requiring you to be a patron. My hope is that this will help me build a stronger fan base and a more active community. A nice benefit is that this will allow me and you to invite our friends to the server!

Specifically, a new channel will be added which will be open to the public. There may still be patron-only channels or benefits, as explained in the tiers below.

# Bones Tier

The **Bones** tier will consist of things that are easy for me to provide:

- Almost all posts on Patreon, including "behind-the-scenes-content", but not including posts meant exclusively for the Skull tier.
- HQ song downloads (for works-in-progress that I post onto Soundcloud)
- Name in the credits of my games
- Better discord permissions (such as the ability to use emotes from different servers and access to patron-only channels)

In Discord, this tier would still have access to the `#general` channel.

This tier will cost $1 or more a month and will combine the Point, Line, and Triangle tiers. These benefits will apply to anyone who is still a patron in these tiers when the new tiers are introduced. Everyone in the Point, Line, and Triangle tiers will also be automatically transitioned to the Bones tier, if possible.

# Skull Tier

The **Skull** tier will consist of things that are more time-intensive for me to do:

- Early access content (early releases of games or albums)
- A crudely hand-drawn avatar in the credits of my games
- The benefits from the **Bones** tier

In Discord, this tier will **no longer** have access to the `#vip` channel. I am planning on deleting the `#vip` channel since it doesn't see much use.

This tier will cost $20 or more a month and will combine the Prism and Tesseract tiers.  These benefits will apply to anyone who is still a patron in these tiers when the new tiers are introduced.  Everyone in the Prism and Tesseract tiers will also be automatically transitioned to the Skull tier, if possible.
