---
title: Hiatus
published: 2020-11-16T23:03Z
created: 2020-11-16T23:03Z
migrated: 2024-09-25T06:37:30Z
aliases:
- Hiatus
crossposts:
- url: https://www.patreon.com/posts/43978562
  time: 2020-11-16T23:03Z
tags:
- patreon
---

> [!info]
> This post was originally intended for a [Patreon](../tags/patreon.md) audience.

# Hiatus

Hey there, skeletons. As you may know from my discord channel, I ended up in a hospital recently and I am still recovering from my stay there. Well, to be more specific, I was involuntarily committed to a psychiatric hospital _even though I did not want to commit suicide_. The care at the psychiatric hospital was ironically so poor that my mental health suffered greatly while I was there. Given the stories I've heard from some of my friends who have also stayed at psychiatric hospitals in the past, the very poor care seems to be the typical experience, at least in the United States, which irks me. I might make a game about this at some point.

Unfortunately, every day I find myself with little to no creative energy for making music or working on my game. I'm talking with my psychiatrist to figure out a new medication plan to help alleviate my depression, but these medications usually take a long time to take effect (and even then it might not necessarily work, so I'd have to repeat the process from the beginning). I won't be posting any updates on Patreon or streaming on a regular basis until further notice, and I won't bill you until I return from hiatus.

I'm looking forward to recovering and getting back to the usual Patreon things. Until then, take care!