---
title: Back from Hiatus
published: 2021-03-06T03:01Z
created: 2021-03-06T03:01Z
migrated: 2024-09-25T06:46:03Z
aliases:
- Back from Hiatus
crossposts:
- url: https://www.patreon.com/posts/48396353
  time: 2021-03-06T03:01Z
tags:
- patreon
---

> [!info]
> This post was originally intended for a [Patreon](../tags/patreon.md) audience.

# Back from Hiatus

Hello skeletons, I just wanted to let you all know that I have returned from my hiatus! Things are still _very_ turbulent in my life and I still struggle with my mental health, but I have started to be productive again. Billing will resume on April 1st.

I am planning on doing more game-development related posts in the coming months, including:

- My continuing work on Gender Dysphoria
- A new project called Magic Dino Bones
- Renewed progress on Access

I am looking forward to writing more about my games and I hope you will enjoy the updates I will post. On the other hand, I do not see myself resuming my regular streaming schedule right away.

Unfortunately, I have performance problems now that I exclusively use Linux. This is particularly problematic for streaming music production as the lack of processing power causes the DAW to clip the audio often, resulting in a poor listening experience.

While I could set up my spare computer to run Windows specifically for music production and streaming, there are many more steps involved before I could actually stream using the spare computer. For example, I would need to order a second set of speaker monitors and another webcam. I don't really want to do this because it would be costly and I dislike the idea of owning a lot more hardware. But, if I don't order extra hardware, then the only other option is to manually disconnect the speakers and webcam from my primary computer and connect it to my streaming computer every time I want to stream, which would be an arduous process to complete.

As you can see, I am stuck in a pickle when it comes to streaming and I have not yet decided what is an acceptable outcome. I do apologize for that.

I will likely make up my mind and resume streaming music production when I finally feel like I can make music again; for the time being I feel like I have writer's block and I am deeply unsatisfied with everything I try making.

Thanks for listening to me ramble, and again, thank you so much for your continued support. <3