---
title: Switching Gears
published: 2021-07-31T06:06Z
created: 2021-07-31T06:06Z
migrated: 2024-09-25T06:56:13Z
aliases:
- Switching Gears
crossposts:
- url: https://www.patreon.com/posts/54329176
  time: 2021-07-31T06:06Z
tags:
- access
- patreon
---

> [!info]
> This post was originally intended for a [Patreon](../tags/patreon.md) audience.

# Switching Gears

Access will no longer be in development. I mentioned in my [last update](202103060301.md) that I wanted to renew development on it, but after discussing the current situation with the writer earlier this week I have decided to stop working on the game as I don't believe we would finish the game by the end of the year as I would have liked.

This is quite a liberating feeling. When I started this Patreon back in 2017, Access was the exciting new game I wanted to make and in the long four years since then it's turned into somewhat of a slow, sticky mess that I've failed to make updates about. Over time, the game has evolved in ways I didn't expect and though I still love the idea, I feel that 4 years is much too long to spend on a single idea without the traction I want and I think it's time to move on.

So in the past month or two, I've been thinking about what kind of game I'd like to do next. I decided to participate in a few game jams in the interim to help re-energize my love for game development (you can see one of these games, Chess Bonk, [here](https://gumboot.itch.io/chess-bonk)) which was a breath of fresh air as I've been working on a long-term project for so long. I've recently come up with a new game I'd like to make, but first I have a few other game-development things I want to clear out in August before attempting it in earnest:

- Publish a retrospective on Access
- Finish accessibility support for Gender Dysphoria
- Publish a retrospective on Gender Dysphoria
- Finish any lingering game jams I've decided to participate in

As you may probably suspect, I am still struggling a lot with mental health so this seems like a lot to accomplish. You're not wrong if you're thinking that, but I sincerely hope I'll be able to accomplish at least some of these things in August.

In other news:

- I have been moving all of my old VOD recordings to Vimeo as a result of [YouTube's policy change on how unlisted links will work](https://blog.youtube/news-and-events/update-youtube-unlisted-links/). At the time of this writing, all of the VODs except for the five oldest ones have been migrated over and have had chapter markers added to them!
- I've re-evaluated my expenditures, which resulted in me unsubscribing from SoundCloud Pro as I no longer think it's worth the price for what we're getting out of it.
- Gender Dysphoria was included in [Queer Games Bundle 2021](https://itch.io/b/861/queer-games-bundle-2021) and it made some money!

I am also planning on going back to regularly scheduled streams again soon and hopefully upload more music tracks. So, many changes are happening! I hope to talk to you all again soon <3
