---
title: Embarking on a new project, and other small updates
published: 2022-03-06T01:28Z
created: 2022-03-06T01:28Z
migrated: 2024-09-25T07:17:42Z
aliases:
- Embarking on a new project, and other small updates
crossposts:
- url: https://www.patreon.com/posts/63428522
  time: 2022-03-06T01:28Z
tags:
- flambe
- ko-fi
- patreon
---

> [!info]
> This post was originally intended for a [Patreon](../tags/patreon.md) audience.

# Embarking on a new project, and other small updates

Hello skeletons! A small written update for all of you about what has been going on. Most of this will be old news if you are on the [discord server](https://discord.gg/arqFQVt).

After Patreon's announcement of their intention to move to the blockchain, I have been exploring alternatives to Patreon. I've made a [Ko-fi page](https://ko-fi.com/exodrifter) but I am not mentioning it here as a request for everyone to move over to Ko-fi. While Ko-fi does not technically take a cut of my revenue, as far as I can tell I can't post patron-only content without paying for the Gold subscription which costs $4.50/month. This is more than what I pay Patreon right now, ~$3.00/mo. Since we're on this topic though, on one hand I've realized that I'm not really sure how valuable patron-only posts are since I don't post them often and I often feel like I could benefit a lot from being more public instead, to help generate interest in my game. On the other hand, I would rather not post about more personal things publicly and I would still like to make the occasional life update. Does that make patrons feel more happy about their patronage since there is more of a personal touch? I don't know.

I also find Ko-fi's marketing confusing (there's actually two different payment programs and they promise similar things) so I feel a little reluctant to purchase it since I don't know exactly what I'm getting. If there is something about that you can clarify to me, I would be happy to hear it. However, if you are perfectly happy without patron-only posts, feel free to support me on Ko-fi. Though, in my opinion, I'm reserving some hope that Comradery becomes available soon and that their offering is attractive, as their approach appeals to me the most.

I started working on a new game which I failed to make up a code name for, so for now I am referring to the game as Flambe (after the name of the main character). It's an inventory management game about a dragon girl breaking down derelict war machines from a long distant war so she can melt the scrap into metal bars for her treasure hoard. I am currently experimenting with different game mechanics and I hope to be done with the prototype for the game by the end of the year.

I have also started streaming regularly [on Twitch](https://www.twitch.tv/exodrifter_) again. At the moment, I stream game development for Flambe every Monday at 6PM Central and I plan on adding a regular time for streaming music production to the schedule soon. I also received affiliate status on Twitch about two weeks ago! I plan on using Twitch's platform as a way to advertise the game I am working on and as a way to build an audience for the game. And, of course, Twitch also represents another source of revenue for me which I hope to use for funding the games I make. If you haven't already, I hope you will find some time to join me at one of my streams sometime!

I participated in a game jam in the last few weeks by making a small procgen toy with a few other people, which you can find [here](https://exodrifter.itch.io/cozy-jam-2022). I also finally uploaded the Access prototype to itch.io and made it available publicly [here](https://exodrifter.itch.io/access). I tried looking for the original source code, but I can't find it anywhere unfortunately. I'll need to do a better job of archiving my old projects.

Well, that's all for now. I hope you all are doing well, and I'll talk to you all again soon.
