---
title: ontological questions about what an install is
published: 2023-09-13T05:10:40.067Z
aliases:
- ontological questions about what an install is
tags:
- unity
---

# ontological questions about what an install is

i do like the idea of "does a partial installation count". for those of you out of the loop, read [this](https://blog.unity.com/news/plan-pricing-and-packaging-updates) and [that](https://blog.unity.com/news/plan-pricing-and-packaging-updates) and maybe [that over there too](https://www.eurogamer.net/unity-reveals-plans-to-charge-per-game-install-drawing-criticism-from-development-community)

if a game is categorized as a "film" because it contains no choices or inputs, is it an installation? what if it reads inputs but it doesn't affect the plot of the film in any way?

if it is not possible to complete the game, does that count as an installation? what if the game can never be completed as part of its intentional design? what if it can technically be completed with glitches?

does a dead-on-arrival game, the kind that crashes on startup and fails to "initialize", count as an installation?

does a game distributed in source, along with a tool that downloads the unity editor from the unity website and uses it to build the game and install it, count as an install that the user has to pay for because they distributed the runtime themselves? how would unity bill each of the users?

if i upload the runtime to a hosting provider like AWS or GCP and write my game in a way that it can be installed and run without the unity runtime but it downloads the runtime at runtime, does amazon or google respectively need to pay unity now?

does a game which downloads the unity runtime _at_ runtime and keeps it in memory without ever writing the runtime to disk count? what if it downloads the runtime from unity for installation at runtime, making unity the distributor of the runtime?

if my game moves the unity runtime to a different location or the defragmentation tool the user ran on their computer moves the unity runtime to a different location, does that count as an install? if not, what if the runtime is moved from one installed game to another?

can a game with hundreds of DLC really be considered a "complete" game insofar as an installation is concerned if the DLC is not installed? what if some of the DLC is installed? what if the number of DLC installed on a user's machine fluctuates like a sine wave?

does a game which contains within itself more games, possibly like a matryoshka doll, count as multiple installations?

does a game which downloads an infinite number of ai-generated games for a warioware clone in a loop count as an infinite number of installations?

# colophon

Posted at:
- [cohost!](https://cohost.org/exodrifter/post/2825887-ontological-question) on 2023-09-13 at 05:10:40.067 UTC