---
title: improving a transition
published: 2023-08-25T05:47:05.154Z
aliases:
- improving a transition
tags:
- fl studio
---

# improving a transition

sapphire diamond wip

<audio controls="">
	<source src="20230825-sapphire-diamond_wip.mp3" type="audio/mpeg">
</audio>

sapphire diamond improved transition

<audio controls="">
	<source src="20230825-sapphire-diamond-improved-transition.mp3" type="audio/mpeg">
</audio>

sapphire diamond improved improved transition

<audio controls="">
	<source src="20230825-sapphire-diamond-improved-improved-transition.mp3" type="audio/mpeg">
</audio>

So I've been practicing music theory and I wanted to share something I was experimenting with.

The first track is me trying to practice the new music theory I learned, with particular focus on how chords are related to each other and how to build a chord progression, in particular one that feels mysterious and enchanted. The chord progression primarily uses Lydian cadences and the technique of extending a cadence by switching the key from major to minor. It also takes some inspiration from chained 215 chord progressions.

The second track (it's just the section of the first track with just the improved transition) was made when it was suggested by an acquaintance that the transition from the introduction to the end wasn't emphasized enough and that it was too short. I could agree with this, since I hadn't put much thought into it other than the chord progressions, so I made the transition better by slowing down the tempo more. They also suggested changing the pattern of the notes to help emphasize it more, which was a good idea.

The third track was made when it was suggested by that same acquaintance that I still hadn't gone far enough. I haven't gone far enough??? Fine. So, I slowed down the tempo to an absolute _crawl_ and then played around with delay, reverb, and feedback to create a tense transition. I also changed up the following section by playing around with similar effects and more tempo changes.

It resulted in a pretty interesting feeling. I'm not sure I want to make this practice sketch into a full song but it was pretty fun to work on.

# colophon

Posted at:
- [cohost!](https://cohost.org/exodrifter/post/2614775-improving-a-transiti/edit) on 2023-08-25 at 05:47:05.154 UTC
