---
created: 2014-02-08T13:41:50Z
migrated: 2025-07-30T06:19:58Z
---

This data was migrated from the games database from my old website circa 2015 which I used to generate pages describing my game. I'm not sure what the dates mean exactly. It could mean the day the project started or when the project was released, but they work well enough as the date I wrote the page so I've used it for the creation date of this entry.

---

**name:** Chancetime
**engine:** Unity3D
**language:** C#
**source:** https://www.github.com/sigfig/chancetime
**description:** Chancetime!
**youtube:** n/a
**about:**

Chancetime is game submission to Scopely's Challenge at the UT Austin uMAD event. Given the fact that it had to be done in less than 8 hours, it's a ridiculously ambitious game that has a large number of features that were actually implemented into the game.

In case the [site that outlines the details of the contest](http://challenge.hiddenswitch.com/) is down or has changed, the challenge was to create a game that represented collaboration by achieving at least one of the following: Use of 2 or more fingers, use of 2 or more characters in the game, could be played on 2 or more platforms, was developed by 2 or more developers, could be played by 2 or more people simultaneously, or could be played by 2 or more devices that were networked together.

We (there were about 5 of us) implemented all 6 of these criterea. But although the game was technically impressive, the game was not much fun to play.

I contributed to this game by creating music, creating prefabs in Unity, and by helping debug problems near the end of the jam.

This game was written in C# using Unity3D and was finished in the morning of February 8, 2014.
