---
created: 2015-10-26T01:49:19-0500
migrated: 2025-07-29T16:50:13-07:00
---

I'm migrating my old website files, starting with the Baskiv files. Baskiv is an old language I made up back when I was interested in codes and constructed languages in high school. I think it's kind of cringe now, but I'd like to keep it around.

I want to put these in my notes folder, but I don't normally add notes anymore without associating an entry with it for tracking reasons. So, I'm creating entries for each note I migrate. All of the Baskiv files have the same timestamp, so I'm including the contents of each page in this entry.

Each page was rendered by running a local PHP folder and then cleaning up the HTML when possible so only the necessary styles are left. This database file was a dictionary of Baskiv words contained in a sqlite database. I exported those contents to CSV.

---

# index.php

## Baskiv

Here you can find resources about Baskiv and lessons on how to read and speak it.

## Resources

- About Baskiv
- English-Baskiv Dictionary

## Lessons

- Alphabet
- Greetings and Goodbyes
- Names
- Counting
- Colors
- Telling time
- Past and Future Tense

# alphabet.php

## Alphabet

The Baskiv alphabet is composed of 27 characters. All of the consonants are roughly equivalent to English letters, but vowels are more specific. Here is a chart of English sounds to Baskiv letters:

**Consonants:**

<table><tr><td>b</td><td>d</td><td>f</td><td>g</td><td>h</td><td>j</td><td>k</td><td>l</td><td>m</td></tr><tr class='baskiv'><td>b</td><td>d</td><td>f</td><td>g</td><td>h</td><td>j</td><td>k</td><td>l</td><td>m</td></tr><tr><td>n</td><td>p</td><td>r</td><td>s</td><td>t</td><td>v</td><td>w</td><td>y</td><td>z</td></tr><tr class='baskiv'><td>n</td><td>p</td><td>r</td><td>s</td><td>t</td><td>v</td><td>w</td><td>y</td><td>z</td></tr></table>

**Vowels:**

<table><tr><td>ah</td><td>ae</td><td>eh</td><td>ee</td><td>ih</td><td>ai</td><td>oh</td><td>uh</td><td>oo</td></tr><tr class='baskiv'><td>a</td><td>q</td><td>e</td><td>c</td><td>i</td><td>x</td><td>o</td><td>u</td><td>O</td></tr></table>

---

In Baskiv, words are broken up into syllables. For example, the English word "home" would be pronounced as one syllable in English. To say the same sound in Baskiv, it would be pronounced as two seperate syllables: "ho-me".

Vowels are also more specific than English. Here is a chart that describes what each vowel sounds like:

<table><tr><th>Baskiv</th><th>English</th></tr><tr><td class='baskiv'>a</td><td>Pronounced like the "a" in <b>a</b>lways</td></tr><tr><td class='baskiv'>q</td><td>Pronounced like the "a" in m<b>a</b>ybe</td></tr><tr><td class='baskiv'>e</td><td>Pronounced like the "e" in b<b>e</b>t</td></tr><tr><td class='baskiv'>c</td><td>Pronounced like the "e" in <b>ee</b>l</td></tr><tr><td class='baskiv'>i</td><td>Pronounced like the "i" in <b>i</b>nto</td></tr><tr><td class='baskiv'>x</td><td>Pronounced like the word <b>eye</b></td></tr><tr><td class='baskiv'>o</td><td>Pronounced like the "o" in <b>o</b>n</td></tr><tr><td class='baskiv'>u</td><td>Pronounced like the "u" in <b>u</b>ndo</td></tr><tr><td class='baskiv'>O/oo</td><td>Pronounced like the "o" in c<b>oo</b>l</td></tr></table>

As a side note, you may notice in the above chart that O may also be written as two o's.

Other than these few points, you can in general pronounce words like you would in English.

Throughout the lessons we will be using the alphabet chart of English sounds to Baskiv letters as guidance for pronunciation.

Next: Greetings

# greetings.php

## Greetings and Goodbyes

*Nouns:*

<table><tbody><tr><td>greeting</td><td class="baskiv">nal</td><td>nahl</td></tr><tr><td>goodbye</td><td class="baskiv">hqs</td><td>haes</td></tr><tr><td>morning</td><td class="baskiv">sil</td><td>sihl</td></tr><tr><td>noon</td><td class="baskiv">al</td><td>ahl</td></tr><tr><td>evening</td><td class="baskiv">elwol</td><td>ehlwohl</td></tr><tr><td>night</td><td class="baskiv">gul</td><td>guhl</td></tr></tbody></table>

*Suffixes:*

<table><tbody><tr><td>verb (subject)</td><td class="baskiv">-va</td><td>-vah</td></tr><tr><td>verb (object)</td><td class="baskiv">-mana</td><td>-mahnah</td></tr><tr><td>adjective/adverb</td><td class="baskiv">-ko</td><td>-koh</td></tr></tbody></table>

*Pronouns:*

<table><tbody><tr><td>I, me</td><td class="baskiv">sol</td><td>sohl</td></tr><tr><td>you</td><td class="baskiv">fq</td><td>fae</td></tr></tbody></table>

---

Baskiv sentences use Subject-Object-Verb (SOV) order. For example, the equivalent of the English sentence "I love you" in SOV order is "I you love". There are also more complex sentence structures that Baskiv uses, but these will be covered in later lessons.

In the Baskiv language, there are no words that are only verbs, adjectives, or adverbs. Instead, nouns are converted to verbs, adjectives, or adverbs by using the corresponding suffix. For example, the word in Baskiv for "greeting" can be changed to a verb by appending the verb suffix <span class="baskiv">-va</span>.

So, to say hello to someone:

> <span class="baskiv">sol fq nalva!</span>

And to say goodbye:

> <span class="baskiv">sol fq hqsva!</span>

It is important to recognize the distinction between the suffix <span class="baskiv">-va</span> and <span class="baskiv">-mana</span>. <span class="baskiv">-va</span> is used when the subject, in this case the speaker, is doing the action. Because of this, it is possible to say hello to someone by only saying <span class="baskiv">nalva</span>; it will be inferred that the speaker is greeting someone or something. On the other hand, if <span class="baskiv">nalmana</span> is said instead, it will be inferred that the speaker is describing a person or thing that is greeting the speaker.

In Baskiv, the words for morning, afternoon, evening, and night can be
changed into an adverb to describe a verb with the suffix <span class="baskiv">
-ko</span>. For example, to say good morning, good afternoon, good evening, or
good night:

<table><thead><tr><th><u>English</u></th><th><u>Baskiv</u></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Good morning.</td><td class="baskiv">silko nalva.</td></tr><tr><td>Good afternoon.</td><td class="baskiv">alko nalva.</td></tr><tr><td>Good evening.</td><td class="baskiv">elwolko nalva.</td></tr><tr><td>Good night.</td><td class="baskiv">gulko nalva.</td></tr></tbody></table>

It should be noted that the above sentences make the assumption that the
speaker is saying hello to whomever they are talking to. Additionally, the
phrase for good night in the above table does not imply sleep; it is just a
greeting given at night. To bid someone farewell at night, you would instead
say <span class="baskiv">gulko hqsva</span>.

Prev: Alphabet
Next: Names

# names.php

## Baskiv Names

*Nouns:*

<table><tbody><tr><td>name</td><td class="baskiv">xvO</td><td>aivoo</td></tr><tr><td>is, equation</td><td class="baskiv">ro</td><td>roh</td></tr><tr><td>It (gender neutral noun)</td><td class="baskiv">til</td><td>tihl</td></tr><tr><td>He (male noun)</td><td class="baskiv">bo</td><td>boh</td></tr><tr><td>She (female noun)</td><td class="baskiv">rq</td><td>rae</td></tr></tbody></table>

*Query:*

<table><tbody><tr><td>who</td><td class="baskiv">dxme</td><td>daimeh</td></tr><tr><td>what</td><td class="baskiv">tome</td><td>tohmeh</td></tr></tbody></table>

---

If your name is Stacey (<span class="baskiv">stqsc</span>), then you can say what your name is with the following:

> <span class="baskiv">sol stqsc rova.</span>

The literal interpretation of this sentence is "I am Stacey". It is ambiguous whether or not the second word in the sentence is a name or just another object. Therefore, the meaning of this sentence depends on context. However, if you wanted to be more specific about it, you could say this:

> <span class="baskiv">sol xvOko stqsc rova.</span>

Roughly translated, this means "I am named Stacey." Being specific can be useful if your name could potentially be assumed for something else. For example...

> <span class="baskiv">sol bo rova.</span>

...could mean "I am male". However, if you name was *actually* <span class="baskiv">bo</span>, you could make this clear by saying this instead:

> <span class="baskiv">sol xvOko bo rova.</span>

---

In order to ask a question, it is sufficient to add the correct query word at the beginning of the sentence. For example, to ask for someone's name:

> <span class="baskiv">tome xvO rova?</span>

The literal interpretation of this sentence is something along the lines of "What are you named?". As you can see, the subject of the sentence was assumed to be "you". All query words will change the assumed subject to the person or thing that the speaker is talking to.

If you wanted to ask who someone was, you could say:

> <span class="baskiv">dxme til rova?</span>

Roughly translated, this means "Who are you?". In this sentence, it is not necessary to say the second word, <span class="baskiv">til</span>.

---

You can say what someone else's name is by using the correct pronoun as the subject of the sentence. For example...

> <span class="baskiv">til xvOko stqsc rova.</span>

...means "He/She is named Stacey". Unlike English, use of the gender-neutral pronoun is not considered offensive or derogatory. If you know the gender of the person, you can say "He is named Stacey" or "She is named Stacey", respectively:

> <span class="baskiv">bo xvOko stqsc rova.</span>

> <span class="baskiv">rq xvOko stqsc rova.</span>

---

### Example

> <span class="baskiv">jon: silko nalva!</span>
> <span class="baskiv">stqsc: nalva!</span>
> <span class="baskiv">jon: jon rova. tome xvO rova?</span>
> <span class="baskiv">stqsc: xvOko stqsc rova.</span>
> <span class="baskiv">kodc: tome til xvO rova?</span>
> <span class="baskiv">jon: rq stqsc rova.</span>

> John: Good morning!
> Stacey: Hello!
> John: I'm John. What is your name?
> Stacey: My name is Stacey.
> Cody: What is their name?
> John: She is named Stacey.

Previous: [Greetings and Goodbyes](baskiv-greetings.md)
Next: [Counting](baskiv-counting.md)

# counting.php

## Counting

*Nouns:*

<table><tbody><tr><td>Zero</td><td class="baskiv">zet</td><td>zeht</td></tr><tr><td>One</td><td class="baskiv">ane</td><td>ahneh</td></tr><tr><td>Two</td><td class="baskiv">fen</td><td>fehn</td></tr><tr><td>Three</td><td class="baskiv">bq</td><td>bae</td></tr><tr><td>Four</td><td class="baskiv">sta</td><td>stah</td></tr><tr><td>Five</td><td class="baskiv">dqk</td><td>daek</td></tr><tr><td>Six</td><td class="baskiv">ino</td><td>ihnoh</td></tr><tr><td>Seven</td><td class="baskiv">tan</td><td>tahn</td></tr><tr><td>Eight</td><td class="baskiv">cl</td><td>eel</td></tr><tr><td>Nine</td><td class="baskiv">nov</td><td>nohv</td></tr><tr><td>Ten</td><td class="baskiv">deka</td><td>dehkah</td></tr><tr><td>Hundred</td><td class="baskiv">hekto</td><td>hehktoh</td></tr><tr><td>Thousand</td><td class="baskiv">kclo</td><td>keeloh</td></tr><tr><td>Million</td><td class="baskiv">mega</td><td>mehgah</td></tr><tr><td>Billion</td><td class="baskiv">giga</td><td>gihgah</td></tr><tr><td>Quantity</td><td class="baskiv">jin</td><td>jihn</td></tr></tbody></table>

*Prefixes:*

<table><tbody><tr><td>Place</td><td class="baskiv">-sta</td><td>-stah</td></tr></tbody></table>

---

Numbers can either be spelled out or defined numerically. The table for Baskiv numbers follows:

<table><tbody><tr><td><u>English</u></td><td><u>Baskiv</u></td></tr><tr><td>0</td><td class="baskiv">0</td></tr><tr><td>1</td><td class="baskiv">1</td></tr><tr><td>2</td><td class="baskiv">2</td></tr><tr><td>3</td><td class="baskiv">3</td></tr><tr><td>4</td><td class="baskiv">4</td></tr><tr><td>5</td><td class="baskiv">5</td></tr><tr><td>6</td><td class="baskiv">6</td></tr><tr><td>7</td><td class="baskiv">7</td></tr><tr><td>8</td><td class="baskiv">8</td></tr><tr><td>9</td><td class="baskiv">9</td></tr></tbody></table>

---

To say a number, there are several formats. In order to specify a quantity larger than 9, it is required to provide the word for that quantity. Because of this, words such as "ten" or "hundred" in Baskiv are considered *quantity* words rather than numbers. Because of this, they cannot be used by themselves. For example:

<table><tbody><tr><td><u>English</u></td><td><u>Baskiv</u></td></tr><tr><td>Ten</td><td class="baskiv">ane deka</td></tr><tr><td>Twenty</td><td class="baskiv">fen deka</td></tr><tr><td>One hundred</td><td class="baskiv">ane hekto</td></tr><tr><td>Three hundred</td><td class="baskiv">bq hekto</td></tr></tbody></table>

Specifying a quanity is sufficient enough to state the rest of the numbers.
For example:

<table><tbody><tr><td><u>English</u></td><td><u>Baskiv</u></td></tr><tr><td>Eleven</td><td class="baskiv">ane deka ane</td></tr><tr><td>Twenty Two</td><td class="baskiv">fen deka fen</td></tr><tr><td>Three hundred and eighty nine</td><td class="baskiv">bq hekto cl nov</td></tr><tr><td>Seven thousand, Six hundred and fourty five</td><td class="baskiv">tan kclo ino sta dqk</td></tr></tbody></table>

If a number contains a zero inside it, the number must have a corresponding
quantity or be assumed to be less than ten. Alternatively, the zero may be
stated. For example:

<table><tbody><tr><td><u>English</u></td><td><u>Baskiv</u></td></tr><tr><td>Three hundred and nine</td><td class="baskiv">bq hekto nov</td></tr><tr><td>Seven thousand and six</td><td class="baskiv">tan kclo ino</td></tr><tr><td>Seven thousand, Six hundred and five</td><td class="baskiv">tan kclo ino zet dqk</td></tr><tr><td>Seven thousand, Six hundred and five</td><td class="baskiv">tan kclo ino hekto dqk</td></tr></tbody></table>

If a number contains any number of zeroes at the end, it is sufficient to
state the quantity of the last non-zero number. For example:

<table><tbody><tr><td><u>English</u></td><td><u>Baskiv</u></td></tr><tr><td>Three hundred and eighty</td><td class="baskiv">bq hekto cl deka</td></tr><tr><td>Seven thousand and sixty</td><td class="baskiv">tan kclo ino hekto</td></tr></tbody></table>

You can use a number to indicate place by adding the prefix "<span class="baskiv">-sta</span>". For example:

<table><tbody><tr><td><u>English</u></td><td><u>Baskiv</u></td></tr><tr><td>First</td><td class="baskiv">anesta</td></tr><tr><td>Second</td><td class="baskiv">fensta</td></tr><tr><td>Third</td><td class="baskiv">bqsta</td></tr></tbody></table>

Lastly, for emphasis and clarification, it is allowed to state the quantity of a number at any time. For example:

<table><tbody><tr><td><u>English</u></td><td><u>Baskiv</u></td></tr><tr><td>Three hundred and eighty nine</td><td class="baskiv">bq hekto cl deka nov</td></tr><tr><td>Seven thousand, six hundred and fourty five</td><td class="baskiv">tan kclo ino hekto sta deka dqk</td></tr></tbody></table>

---

Examples:

<table><tbody><tr><td><u>English</u></td><td><u>Baskiv</u></td></tr><tr><td>49</td><td class="baskiv">49</td></tr><tr><td>557</td><td class="baskiv">557</td></tr><tr><td>Five hundred and fifty seven</td><td class="baskiv">dqk hekto dqk tan</td></tr><tr><td>Six million, four thousand, and five</td><td class="baskiv">ino mega sta kclo dqk</td></tr></tbody></table>

Previous: Names

# tenses.php

## Past and Future Tense

*Prefixes:*

<table><tbody><tr><td>present tense</td><td class="baskiv">-va</td><td>-vah</td></tr><tr><td>past tense</td><td class="baskiv">-vasa</td><td>-vahsah</td></tr><tr><td>future tense</td><td class="baskiv">-vaya</td><td>-vahyah</td></tr><tr><td>present tense</td><td class="baskiv">-mana</td><td>-mahnah</td></tr><tr><td>past tense</td><td class="baskiv">-manasa</td><td>-mahnahsah</td></tr><tr><td>future tense</td><td class="baskiv">-manaya</td><td>-mahnahyah</td></tr></tbody></table>

---

Up until this point, all examples have used present tense. It is possible to specify when something had or will happen. To say something will happen in the past, you add the <span class="baskiv">-sa</span> suffix to the end of an existing suffix. To say something will happen in the future, you add the <span class="baskiv">-ya</span> suffix to the end of an existing suffix.

For example:

<table><tbody><tr><td><u>English</u></td><td><u>Baskiv</u></td></tr><tr><td>I count one.</td><td class="baskiv">sol ane jinva.</td></tr><tr><td>I counted two.</td><td class="baskiv">sol fen jinva.</td></tr><tr><td>I will count three.</td><td class="baskiv">sol bq jinva.</td></tr></tbody></table>

# dictionary.db

```csv
baskiv,english
ach,ouch
ach,onomatopoeia
agiv,across
al,noon
al,afternoon
alrc,real
alrc,actual
an,and
ba,many
ba,plural
ba,more
baba,many
baba,plural
baba,a-lot
baba,more
ban,but
benO,sorry
benO,apology
bilsa,peace
binel,bad
binel,incorrect
bino,of
bino,by
bino,result
bino,about
blen,tech
blen,technology
blik,stab
blik,death
blik,kill
blik,die
bo,male
bo,he
bo,him
bokil,desk
boknim,city
boknim,town
bosa,another
bosa,additional
bosa,add
bram,become
bram,transform
brame,member
brq,part-of
brq,part
brq,pronoun
brq,group
brq,one
buvc,bouncer
buvc,door-duty
buvc,escort
buvc,security-guard
cr,if
cr,conditional
das,hard
das,difficult
def,find
def,found
def,discover
defin,beyond
defin,further
defin,ahead
dena,alright
dena,fine
dena,ok
difto,absentminded
difto,distract
difto,oblivious
din,sometimes
din,chance
din,maybe
din,perhaps
dorota,prove
dorota,convince
dorota,justify
dos,somehow
dos,anywise
dqn,down
dqn,below
dqn,beneath
dren,box
dren,crate
dul,large
dxme,question
dxme,who
edin,often
edin,frequent
eksin,alien
eksin,outsider
eksin,outside
elwol,evening
en,of
en,relationship
en,to
ena,smart
ena,wise
eztak,exchange
eztak,trade
eztak,sell
fOrO,before
fOrO,time
fOtgil,bar
fOtgil,pub
fOtgil,tavern
fardus,cool
fardus,suave
fardus,genial
fardus,urbane
fardus,neat
fardus,swell
fardus,sweet
farol,long
farol,time
farol,ago
faski,today
fatis,fight
fatis,tussle
fatis,altercation
fatis,brawl
fem,beer
fem,alcohol
femto,ale
femto,alcohol
fent,event
fin,it
fin,item
fin,thing
fin,pronoun
finlq,treat
finlq,consider
finlq,grant
finlq,recognize
flagil,hell
flog,book
foy,watch
foy,cognizant
foy,conscious
foy,informed
foy,aware
fq,you
fqyen,friend
fqyen,buddy
fqyen,pal
frin,take
frin,bring
fuwuwa,spectacular
fuwuwa,amazing
fuwuwa,astonishing
fuwuwa,dazzling
fuwuwa,fantastic
fuwuwa,magnificent
fxn,left
gaka,idiot
gaka,dolt
gaka,stupid
game,question
game,where
gasine,to-not-be
gasine,inexistant
gen,place
gen,location
ginben,town
ginben,village
ginsa,walk
giv,side
giv,end
go,we
go,them
go,us
gobas,destroy
gobas,annihilate
gobas,ruin
goda,always
goda,constant
goden,road
goden,path
gojin,parent
gojin,mom
gojin,dad
gojin,mother
gojin,father
grOl,hunger
grOl,hungry
gran,chain
gran,bondage
gran,bound
grqdin,great
grqdin,good
grqdin,magnificent
grqdin,extravagant
grqdin,majestic
gul,night
gutra,trouble
gutra,mischief
gutra,problem
haksi,good
haksi,right
haksi,correct
han,absent
han,missing
han,lost
han,lacking
han,absence
han,lose
handq,hide
handq,cover
handq,disguise
handq,obscure
harat,intention
hatken,take
hawil,hang-out
hawil,mingle
hawil,socialize
hen,touch
hin,cold
hin,freezing
hindel,favor
horO,ball
horoki,open
horoki,hours
horoki,work
horoki,operating
hot,hate
hot,detest
hqs,goodbye
hx,hey
hx,attention
hxyen,want
hxyen,desire
hxyen,wish
ib,it
ib,thing
ib,sentence
ib,pronoun
in,few
in,some
in,less
inin,few
inin,some
inin,less
inin,none
inketsqn,iridescence
inketsqn,goniochromism
inketsqn,iridescent
intenpqn,sentence
isen,hear
isen,heard
janir,complete
janir,full
janir,entire
janir,all
jasal,jump
jcgan,enthusiasm
jcgan,energy
jcgan,interest
jen,can
jen,will
jen,would
jenwo,time
jin,quantity
jin,number
jin,amount
jin,count
joes,eye
jxdo,mood
jxdo,feeling
kajq,power
kajq,on
kajq,activate
kako,when
kako,time
kakome,question
kakome,when
kalis,see
kalis,look
kalis,sight
kalis,vision
kam,drink
kam,eat
kam,consume
kan,sugar
kan,sweet
kanin,honey
kap,news
kathiks,together
kathiks,meet
kathiks,meeting
kathiks,join
kcno,adult
kcno,grown-up
kcnqt,fortunate
kcnqt,luck
kcnqt,fortune
kcnqt,lucky
kem,poison
kem,venom
kem,toxin
kentak,exchange
kentak,trade
kentak,buy
kentos,choose
kentos,choice
khadrq,ancient
khadrq,old
khadrq,prehistoric
khadrq,primeval
khak,tear
khak,break
khak,fissure
khak,rupture
kiben,brick
kiben,stone
kinero,result
kinero,in
kit,speech
kit,tell
kit,talk
kit,speak
klosil,heaven
ko,do
ko,to-do
koga,cannot
koga,not
koka,bird
kon,task
kon,job
kon,assignment
kon,exercise
kor,advanced
kor,leading
kor,progressive
koso,lost
koso,confused
koy,reciprocate
koy,return
krom,resident
krom,denizen
kumc,pain
lab,wit
lab,wits
lab,bearing
lab,mental
lab,consciousness
laga,lazy
laze,are
laze,how
lc,single
lc,solo
lc,only
lc,solitary
lc,lone
lc,one
lc,once
len,child
len,kid
len,youth
len,minor
len,youngster
len,juvenile
lif,soon
lif,shortly
liga,experience
liga,undergo
liga,transition
likOyc,clear
likOyc,obvious
likOyc,precise
likOyc,apparent
lingO,language
lited,detail
lited,feature
lited,design
lited,article
lited,part
lited,piece
lof,glove
lof,gauntlet
log,than
log,comparison
lola,loud
lola,noisy
lospo,sad
lospo,depressed
lospo,dismal
loswarq,unbelievable
loswarq,astonishing
loswarq,implausible
loswarq,inconceivable
lot,yet
lot,however
lova,simple
lova,basic
lowhan,honest
lowhan,truth
lowhan,truthful
loy,new
loy,young
loy,recent
lqk,fish
lqkan,bet
lqkan,wager
lqn,right
lulip,clumsy
lxjen,exist
lxjen,to-be
lxjen,live
lxjen,be
mqn,keep
mqn,store
mqn,save
muk,sealed
muk,seal
muk,close
muk,closed
muk,shut
mul,find
mul,seek
mul,look
mulyx,mind
mulyx,brain
mulyx,cognitive
na,well
na,interjection
nak,no
nak,disagreement
nak,disagree
nal,greeting
nal,hello
nal,greet
nam,have
nam,own
nam,possess
nast,wake-up
nast,turn-on
nasx,brown
nata,sense
nata,feel
nem,then
nem,conditional
nom,typical
nom,common
nom,usual
nom,normal
ob,there
omi,hope
omi,desire
omi,anticipation
on,possessive
on,of
on,ownership
pak,earn
pak,gain
pak,obtain
pak,acquire
palis,appearance
palis,look
palis,display
palis,presentation
palis,present
palisdq,show
palisdq,present
palisdq,display
pamo,hand
pamo,grip
pamo,palm
panrqn,farm
parashO,incomplete
parashO,some
parashO,fragment
pas,wait
pas,rest
pas,stay
pase,symphatize
pase,understand
pase,get
perog,dog
piterno,skeptic
plik,forgot
plik,forget
plim,berry
plim,fruit
plx,try
plx,attempt
pol,use
pol,utilize
pol,work
pomedo,require
pomedo,need
ponwa,energetic
puk,full
qgo,welcome
qgo,nice
qgo,good
qmin,human
qmin,man
qsan,kind
qsan,nice
qsan,friendly
qsan,cordial
qsan,sympathetic
qv,or
rag,opening
rag,door
rag,entrance
rando,some
rando,random
rando,any
rapto,after
rapto,later
rapto,time
rapto,afterwards
ras,face
rena,different
renago,knowledge
renago,know
renago,think
reniv,remember
reniv,vivid
renxo,widow
rep,affirm
rep,confirm
rep,certify
rep,approve
rep,corroborate
rezegun,supplies
riban,gate
riban,door
rila,happy
rila,cheerful
rila,joy
ro,equality
ro,equal
ro,is
ro,result
rodo,rude
rodo,unsurly
rodo,unfriendly
rodo,unpleasant
rognc,power
rognc,ability
rognc,skill
rognc,capability
rognc,aptitude
rol,long
ropna,end
ropna,final
ropna,terminal
ropna,termination
ropna,finish
rq,female
rq,she
rq,her
rqv,happen
rxzep,annoyed
sOmenya,slang
sOmenya,scram
sOmenya,out
sOmenya,outside
sOnO,tired
sOnO,sleepy
sa,yes
sa,agreement
sa,informal
sa,agree
sa,affirm
san,result
san,with
san,on
san,at
scap,result
scap,so
sepa,same
shup,short
sil,morning
silen,shield
silen,armor
silger,food
silger,crops
silger,crop
silger,harvest
simlc,like
simlc,affinity
simlc,enjoy
sine,exist
sine,to-be
sine,be
sit,done
sit,finish
skq,danger
skq,caution
skq,warning
skq,warn
skq,threat
slOg,slow
slen,fix
slen,repair
slin,through
smi,small
sofo,trust
sofo,swear
sofo,sworn
sok,ask
sok,question
sol,I
sol,me
sol,myself
son,disappear
son,fade
son,gone
soya,imagine
soya,think
soya,creative
soya,creativity
spx,light
spx,sun
sta,start
sta,begin
subiro,that
subiro,result
subiro,to
sumra,thank
sumra,thanks
swiga,hardworking
swiga,dedicated
swiga,productive
swiga,work
swiga,produce
sx,wear
sxf,ghost
sxf,wraith
sxf,spirit
sxtomino,premonition
sxtomino,sign
sxtomino,omen
tak,bag
tak,pack
tak,backpack
taka,scribble
taka,etch
taka,sketch
taka,drawing
tama,world
tama,earth
tama,ground
tel,look
tel,see
tel,sight
tel,seem
tenin,likewise
tenin,same
tenin,also
tenin,similar
tenin,similarly
tensif,do
tensif,work
tero,other
tero,others
tifal,forest
tik,deserve
til,it
til,he
til,she
til,pronoun
tilgq,death
timon,company
timon,visitor
timon,group
tinc,body
toko,wood
toko,lumber
tome,question
tome,what
tonak,nothing
tonak,never
tor,curse
tqm,trust
tqm,faith
tqm,hope
tqm,depend
tren,allow
tren,let
tum,play
tum,amuse
tum,entertainment
tum,amusement
tun,must
txno,specific
txno,peculiar
txno,particular
vale,leave
vale,depart
vale,from
vas,open
vas,free
vas,clear
vat,yes
vat,agreement
vat,agree
vat,formal
vat,affirm
vaxe,wary
vaxe,vigilant
vaxe,watchful
vaxe,attentive
veb,inside
veb,in
ven,come
ven,arrive
ven,close
ven,decrease
venka,feather
venko,conveniently
venko,convenient
venko,coincidence
venko,just
veno,quick
vikot,curious
vikot,inquisitive
vikot,interested
vin,take
vin,receive
vin,get
vinan,version
vinan,type
vinan,kind
vis,soul
vis,essence
vitako,go
vitako,out
vitako,outside
voks,fox
vqg,remove
vqg,delete
vqg,destroy
vudc,spunk
vudc,fortitude
walo,travel
walo,move
walo,go
wanx,order
way,sky
way,air
waz,domain
waz,realm
waz,sphere
waz,territory
wen,up
wen,above
werlq,really
wes,house
wes,home
wespa,card
wespa,pass
wino,learn
wino,train
wog,group
wog,committee
wog,board
wog,cabinet
wog,chamber
wog,panel
wog,jury
wog,consultants
won,follow
won,next
won,afterwards
won,succeeding
wuscko,welcome
wuscko,greet
wxno,strange
wxno,unusual
wxs,idea
xl,fall
xl,plunge
xl,drop
xn,god
xn,diety
xn,almighty
xn,divinity
xnfin,give
xnsil,help
xnsil,aid
xoventos,volition
xoventos,choice
xsO,love
xvO,name
xyel,letter
xyel,message
xyel,card
xyen,recover
xyen,recuperate
yOmcyo,bump
yOmcyo,shove
yOmcyo,hit
yame,question
yame,why
yamin,memory
yamin,thought
yamin,remembrance
yat,party
yayon,promote
yayon,upgrade
yedo,rest
yedo,sleep
yenon,far
yenon,distant
yina,someone
yina,something
yina,entity
yina,thing
yina,it
yina,pronoun
yo,no
yo,to-not-do
yo,not
yogul,weather
yon,person
yon,people
yos,drink
yos,beverage
yulgo,unfortunate
yulgo,misfortune
yulgo,bad-luck
zcav,careful
zcav,cautious
zcav,careful
zen,logical
zen,sensible
zen,reasonable
zen,rational
zena,because
zena,result
zovis,visit
zu,gem
zu,jewel
zx,here
```
