---
created: 2023-07-06T03:07Z
---

Recorded myself saying the alphabet and added a small test script to null to playback the audio.

I decided that the most interesting thing to work on right now is the audio for the dialog. Even though it isn't super important, it will help me get back into the rhythm of working on the game again.

I found out that Audacity _does_ have a way to auto-slice a file into multiple parts using `Analyze > Label Sounds`, which was very useful in saving me editing time.

Additionally, it appears that Godot has some [useful tips](https://docs.godotengine.org/en/stable/tutorials/assets_pipeline/importing_audio_samples.html#doc-importing-audio-samples-best-practices) for audio compression:

- There's no _audible_ benefit to using 24-bit audio, especially in a game where several sounds are often playing at the same time (which makes it harder to appreciate individual sounds).
- Unless you are slowing down the audio at run-time, there's no _audible_ benefit to using a sample rate greater than 48 kHz. If you wish to keep a source with a higher sample rate for editing, use the `Force > Max Rate` import option to limit the sample rate of the imported sound (only available for WAV files).
- Many sound effects can generally be converted to mono as opposed to stereo. If you wish to keep a source with stereo for editing, use the `Force > Mono` import option to convert the imported sound to mono (only available for WAV files).
- Voices can generally be converted to mono, but can also have their sample rate reduced to 22 kHz without a noticeable loss in quality (unless the voice is very high-pitched). This is because most human voices never go past 11 kHz.

I've changed the voice import settings to import the recording I made at 22 kHz and it seems to work without a noticeable loss in quality.

Unfortunately, it seems that the inspector interface for storing the audio files in a Godot `Dictionary` doesn't work well, though it is convenient to use the `Dictionary` type in the code. I would also like to have a better editor for adding audio files. I'll have to investigate this further; maybe I can make a custom resource.
