---
created: 2023-06-06T11:29-0500
---

We reviewed the homework, which I managed to get completely correct.

All major scales have the same roman numerals because all major scales have the same intervals. The same applies to minor scales. Roman numerals are useful for analyzing chord progressions because it doesn't care about the root note or scale you are in. You can use the same major roman numerals between all major scales and the same minor roman numerals between all minor scales.

The relative minor of a major scale has the same notes in its scale. You can find the relative minor by getting the minor third below the root note.

Major roman numeral triads:

Roman Numeral | Third Interval | Fifth Interval
--------------|----------------|---------------
I       | major | major
ii      | minor | major
iii     | minor | major
IV      | major | major
V       | major | major
vi      | minor | major
vii dim | minor | minor

Minor roman numeral triads:

Roman Numeral | Third Interval | Fifth Interval
--------------|----------------|---------------
i      | minor | major
ii dim | minor | minor
III    | major | major 
iv     | minor | major
v      | minor | major
VI     | major | major
VII    | major | major

`dim` stands for diminished, which is a triad with two minor intervals. There are also augmented triads which have two major intervals, but those don't usually appear in traditional western music theory.

Note that the minor roman numerals have the same interval combinations as their relative major scale and the only thing that is different is the name. For example, a `i` in A minor and the `vi` in C major are both minor triads as they both contain the notes `ACE`; the intervals of the third and fifth note in the triad are the same.

We'll talk about cadences and chord extensions next time and I have no homework assignment.
