---
created: 2024-08-05T18:12:09Z
---

_no signal_ stream 108:
- It seems useful to define categories of things that decals can interact with. For example, I wanted to place a piece of paper near some geometry that had a grime/mold decal placed on it already, which meant that the decal would be applied to the paper as well. Instead, it seems like I should explicitly categorize which decals affect the scenery and which ones affect the items so that this kind of undesired overlap doesn't happen.
- `resource_local_to_scene` is a funny little toggle that we had trouble with today. The problem is that it duplicates the resource immediately, even when you are viewing the scene in the editor. The problem arises when you have this toggle set in a resource in a property in the root of a prefab; the resource will be duplicated in the `.tscn` files of all scenes that include that prefab. Thankfully, Godot handles this situation gracefully in that any change to the original scene will take effect, but this means any scenes including the prefab after the prefab is modified will also be modified whenever a user happens to open that scene, which is not great for diffs.
- Ran into an upload issue with Gitea when trying to upload attachments. ([20240805_221730](20240805_221730.md))
- While raiding, I found out that I can workaround the libx11 crash by downgrading ([20240805_225007](20240805_225007.md))

Docket:
- [x] Add more diagetic clues about how the card system works, like scraps of paper showing how to calculate each number in the sequence.
- [x] Fix degauss not working on every screen
- [x] Fix items in safe not appearing in beacon search
- [x] Fix WASD movement being limited by wherever the anchor happens to be when movement starts
