---
created: 2024-11-06T19:37:24Z
---

_no signal_ stream 137:
- Copied TODOs from [20241106050659](20241106050659.md)
- Discussed the horror moon base idea for a bit [20241106205528](20241106205528.md)

Improved clues:
- [ ] ~~Add a clue telling you where bobby's room is in spirit's room~~ I think instead of this, we want to add a clue telling you that there is no one in 1A anymore, and then add a dialog there where Nevaeh is moving and talks about which rooms everyone is in.
- [x] Add floor plan in Spirit's room marking Nevaeh's old room
- [ ] Add dialog to Nevaeh's old room talking about where her new room is
- [ ] Add hint about where Bobby's room is somewhere???
- [ ] add clue saying where the work area is
- [ ] Maybe I should add a clue to the environment about the comms card also working for the storage room?
- [ ] Add a way for the player to know what the cards look like before they go looking for one? https://steamcommunity.com/app/2840590/discussions/0/4703538708011162084/#c4703539342753139244
- [ ] Add elevator icon to reactor scene? People tend to think that the elevator card is for the EVA room
- [ ] Add clue to office about which lab the lockbox is in
- [ ] Add a clue to tell the player where to go after the communications room
- [ ] Add missing EVA Card texture
- [ ] Add missing Cupola Card texture

Bobby's Quest:
- [x] Implement 3d printer computer UI
- [x] 1G door closing sound
- [x] Spawn spark particle effect when fuse breaks
- [x] Add 3D printer head and printer spool to item map
- [ ] Missing probe model with separate hull geo?
- [ ] Add a place to hook up the printer wire?

Naoko's Quest:
- [ ] Add FTL prototype in lockbox
- [ ] Add lockbox key to item map

Sounds:
- [ ] Add 3D printer head pickup sound
- [ ] Fuse pickup sound is missing
- [ ] meeting room, study, etc has no ambiance
- [ ] Add door close sound
- [ ] Bedroom fixture needs sounds

TODO:
- [x] Connect work hallways to activity room
- [ ] Can't click on door again after fuse pops, you have to click on something else first
- [ ] add door state to save
- [ ] Add keyboard controls for chat log
- [ ] Sometimes the anchor point is wrong when you select an item, not sure how to reproduce.
- [ ] [#15](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/15) Add OCR for handwritten notes
- [ ] [#16](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/16) Item highlight assist mode
- [ ] [#34](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/34) Add input remapping support
- [ ] [#43](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/43) Add option to toggle look and orbit controls
- [ ] [#44](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/44) Controller support
- [ ] I could break the cassette tapes sometimes, which means you need to manually re-wind the tape back into the cassette.
- [ ] Change sensitivity settings to use text input instead of sliders, or increase granularity to something impossibly annoying (might need to add something to increase how fast the slider moves if you hold down one direction), or show both a slider and a text box, or add a stateful toggle between text input and slider value
- [ ] Add way to reset setting to defaults
- [ ] People tend to double click on things, which cancels the camera movement. Maybe I can detect double clicks and handle them?
- [ ] Add version check to main menu
- [ ] Add save game selection to main menu
- [ ] Frame rate limit option
- [ ] Add z and c to rotate clockwise or counter-clockwise?

unsure if I want to do:
- [ ] Maybe we should color coordinate drives and computers? I didn't like it when I did this before, but maybe I could approach the problem in a different way... Also, the colors would mostly be useful for people who don't read but I'm designing a game that depends a lot on reading.
- [ ] Add audio when hovering over door or keypad https://steamcommunity.com/app/2840590/discussions/0/6857382246109938235/
- [ ] Pivot camera to look at hint bubble?
