---
created: 2024-11-11T00:01:55Z
---

_no signal_ stream 140:
- TODOs copied from: [20241109234512](20241109234512.md), [20241110192951](20241110192951.md)

Playtest feedback:
- [x] Table in elevator chamber disappears with wall
- [ ] ~~Rig spins when teleporting mouse to other side of window~~ Appears to be an upstream Wayland/Godot issue [20241111024109](20241111024109.md)
- [x] Clipping in video game cabinet in activity room
- [x] Add ambience to bathroom
- [x] Plant and couches in Naoko's room clips rug
- [x] 2f-a shark dialog needs to be turned into bbcode
- [x] 2f is missing two drives?
- [ ] keep dorm room doors open
- [ ] ~~1a-a has "code" dialog but i think that dialog should be in neil's or naoko's computer~~ This dialog is in the right place, i think I sent a build with the wrong speakers
- [ ] Missing code hint given by 1a-a "code" dialog
- [x] Don't replay opening animation for safes
- [x] Add clue about F sequence
- [x] Update playtester credits
- [x] Something is broken with left click + WASD
- [ ] Organize inventory by adding filters, tabs, or sections
- [x] Change cursor when mousing over stairs or doors

Waiting on Tanuki:
- [ ] Incomplete FTL Probe with separate hull and FTL drive models
- [ ] Card textures for EVA, Cupola, Dorm 2G
- [ ] Add a place to hook up the 3d printer wire
- [ ] A version of `sm_props_plastic_box_flat_a` with the lid separated, so I can add an opened fuse box on the floor in the common storage to hint at an extra fuse
- [ ] Vessel model
- [ ] Note in Bobby's room needs updated handwriting

Sounds:
- [ ] Key pickup
- [ ] Add dripping sounds to bathroom

Naoko's Quest:
- [ ] Add FTL prototype in lockbox
- [ ] Add clue to office about which lab the lockbox is in

Improved clues:
- [ ] Add a way for the player to know what the cards look like before they go looking for one? https://steamcommunity.com/app/2840590/discussions/0/4703538708011162084/#c4703539342753139244
- [ ] Add a clue to tell the player where to go after the communications room

TODO:
- [ ] Add a setting to disable mouse warp on edges, since it doesn't work on Wayland.
- [x] Keep drive button order the same if possible when inserting drives
- [ ] Add keyboard controls for chat log
- [ ] [#15](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/15) Add OCR for handwritten notes
- [ ] [#16](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/16) Item highlight assist mode
- [ ] [#34](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/34) Add input remapping support
- [ ] [#43](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/43) Add option to toggle look and orbit controls
- [ ] [#44](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/44) Controller support
- [ ] I could break the cassette tapes sometimes, which means you need to manually re-wind the tape back into the cassette.
- [ ] Change sensitivity settings to use text input instead of sliders, or increase granularity to something impossibly annoying (might need to add something to increase how fast the slider moves if you hold down one direction), or show both a slider and a text box, or add a stateful toggle between text input and slider value
- [ ] Add way to reset setting to defaults
- [ ] People tend to double click on things, which cancels the camera movement. Maybe I can detect double clicks and handle them?
- [ ] Add version check to main menu
- [ ] Add save game selection to main menu
- [ ] Add z and c to rotate clockwise or counter-clockwise?
- [ ] Door sounds play on main menu when starting new game, i think because the save state is reset and that causes the doors to realize that they need to change to the closed state.

Unsure:
- [ ] Sometimes the anchor point is wrong when you select an item, not sure how to reproduce.
- [ ] Maybe we should color coordinate drives and computers? I didn't like it when I did this before, but maybe I could approach the problem in a different way... Also, the colors would mostly be useful for people who don't read but I'm designing a game that depends a lot on reading.
- [ ] Add audio when hovering over door or keypad https://steamcommunity.com/app/2840590/discussions/0/6857382246109938235/
- [ ] Pivot camera to look at hint bubble?
- [ ] Auto-select first empty slot when clicking on drive bays
- [ ] Add previews to audio settings
- [ ] Show button on screen when in stair or door region
