---
created: 2024-08-27T21:06:22Z
---

Digitizing notes taken at 2D Con for no signal:

**2024-08-23**

Plays: 8
Sales: 2

- confused about drives not being orange, assumed that meant the drive did not work
- WASD controls shouldn't be bounded because it makes people think the camera has to be bounded
- find more ways to encourage clipping
- add button to tutorial circuit

**2024-08-24**

Plays: 25? (lost count)
Sales: 2

- Put a light on power button
- Flash the play button or autoplay
- Space/Shift to go up and down
- Beacon search UI is hidden when zoomed
- People don't know what the card is for
- make up and down look more wide
- Comms card can lose its data?
- elevator b is labeled on an elevator r drive?
- Move computer so it is easier to see
- Make underneath of rug brighter
- Seq A 1, 2, 3, simple secure password comment
- Support WASD in spin box
- Move/add labels to drive bay
- Diagetic Journal in Black Mirror 2
- Change colors of drives
- Add a way to take notes?
- Make tabs more visible

**2024-08-25**

Plays: 6
Sales: 1

- Auto-lock correct drives and play unread notification sound?
- Describe what the velcro mats look like, add velcro logo?
- Add card reader image when card is not inserted.
- Add changes are autosaved hint to card writer
- Say what the card is for in the inventory
- Add sfx/interaction with velcro mat
- "Access Card" and "Comms card" seems like different things, rename to "Comms access card"
- disable look control in inventory, disable wasd
- WASD still move when inv is open
- Numpad doesn't work? (with Steam Deck)
- Use cloth items instead of hard surface stuff on velcro mat
