---
created: 2024-12-05T21:33:41Z
---

_no signal_ stream 153:
- Copied TODOs from [20241201180201](20241201180201.md)
- In stream 152, all I did was work on the probe cinematic
- Going to focus more on item labels today, since the stream will be on the shorter side

Bobby's Quest:
- [ ] Drop bobby's secret room and the dialog hinting at it? Don't think I have time to implement it. Not sure what to replace this with.

Naoko's Quest:
- [ ] Add clue to office about which lab the lockbox is in

Ending:
- [ ] Add credits to ending cinematic

TODO:
- [x] Add item labels to energy lab
- [x] Add item labels to gravity lab
- [ ] Add item labels to green room
- [ ] Add item labels to music room
- [ ] Add item labels to gravity backup
- [ ] Add keyboard controls for chat log
- [ ] [#34](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/34) Add input remapping support
- [ ] [#43](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/43) Add option to toggle look and orbit controls
- [ ] Change sensitivity settings to use text input instead of sliders, or increase granularity to something impossibly annoying (might need to add something to increase how fast the slider moves if you hold down one direction), or show both a slider and a text box, or add a stateful toggle between text input and slider value
- [ ] Add version check to main menu
- [ ] Add save game selection to main menu
- [ ] Door sounds play on main menu when starting new game, i think because the save state is reset and that causes the doors to realize that they need to change to the closed state.

Sounds:
- [ ] `sm_lab_counter` open/close
- [ ] Add different audio for metal dust box
- [ ] Printing sound
- [ ] `sm_props_tvunit` open/close
- [ ] `sm_props_cart_metal_drawer` open/close
- [ ] Cupboard open/close
- [ ] Key pickup and unlock
- [ ] Add dripping sounds to bathroom
- [ ] Add sounds to expert system login
- [ ] Add sounds to probe UI
- [ ] Add audio when hovering over door or keypad https://steamcommunity.com/app/2840590/discussions/0/6857382246109938235/

Polish:
- [ ] Add more shark plushies
- [ ] Add shark plushie collection spot in Naoko's room
- [ ] Add chess game
- [ ] Add more dialog to work rooms
- [ ] Add more puzzles to work rooms

Improved clues:
- [ ] Add a way for the player to know what the cards look like before they go looking for one? https://steamcommunity.com/app/2840590/discussions/0/4703538708011162084/#c4703539342753139244
- [ ] Add a clue to tell the player where to go after the communications room
- [ ] Make the reactor sliding puzzle brighter or more noticeable
- [ ] Add transparency to the lid of the fuse box or a note to help people find the fuses in the storage room

Unsure:
- [ ] People tend to double click on things, which cancels the camera movement. Maybe I can detect double clicks and handle them?
- [ ] Add a map button
- [ ] [#15](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/15) Add OCR for handwritten notes
- [ ] [#16](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/16) Item highlight assist mode
- [ ] [#44](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/44) Controller support
- [ ] I could break the cassette tapes sometimes, which means you need to manually re-wind the tape back into the cassette.
- [ ] Add gamma control so that players can adjust brightness
- [ ] Sometimes the anchor point is wrong when you select an item, not sure how to reproduce.
- [ ] Maybe we should color coordinate drives and computers? I didn't like it when I did this before, but maybe I could approach the problem in a different way... Also, the colors would mostly be useful for people who don't read but I'm designing a game that depends a lot on reading.
- [ ] Pivot camera to look at hint bubble?
- [ ] Auto-select first empty slot when clicking on drive bays
- [ ] Add previews to audio settings
- [ ] Show button on screen when in stair or door region
