---
created: 2024-08-06T16:51:54Z
---

I ran into these errors in a build of _no signal_:

```
ERROR: Cannot generate mipmaps in compressed or custom image formats.
   at: generate_mipmaps (core/io/image.cpp:1821)
ERROR: Cannot convert to <-> from compressed formats. Use compress() and decompress() instead.
   at: convert (core/io/image.cpp:525)
```

We _do_ call `decompress` before calling `generate_mipmaps` and `convert`, but it appears that in the build, the decompress function returns `ERR_UNAVAILABLE`. This is why the `Image` is still compressed when we attempt to call these functions.

The textures I have use BPTC compression, which _should_ be supported by the `decompress` function:

> [docs.godotengine.org](https://docs.godotengine.org/en/4.2/classes/class_image.html#class-image-method-decompress):
>
> **`Error decompress()`**
>
> Decompresses the image if it is VRAM compressed in a supported format. Returns `@GlobalScope.OK` if the format is supported, otherwise `@GlobalScope.ERR_UNAVAILABLE`.
>
> **Note:** The following formats can be decompressed: DXT, RGTC, BPTC. The formats ETC1 and ETC2 are not supported.

But, as it turns out, the decompress function might still return `ERR_UNAVAILABLE` anyway because not all of the image compression and decompression libraries are included in export builds:

> [clayjohn](https://github.com/godotengine/godot/issues/79932#issuecomment-1652303933):
>
> Looks like most of the image compression/decompression libraries aren't included in export builds.
>
> In the past I know that we avoided including any image saving/loading libraries in the export builds, but I know that has been slowly opening up.
>
> I guess the discussion here should be whether we want to enable the compression libraries for export builds. It would be helpful to do a build size analysis to see what the realistic cost for enabling them is.

With some experimentation, it appears that of the compression options available for Godot's `compress` function, only `COMPRESS_S3TC` can be decompressed at runtime by `decompress` with the default export template.
