---
created: 2024-08-04T19:41:38Z
---

Working on _no signal_ offline.

While trying to remember why I wanted to change the thruster monitor to show a data sendoff interface instead, I realized that I didn't remember how that scene would transition to the holodeck scene. This made me realize that I couldn't remember how the game was going to end, but I discussed it with Tanuki and we settled on something that I think works well: Instead of ending things with sending off data, we'll have you try to fix the FTL drive. But, when you try to fix the FTL drive, it's at the moment that it turns on and the game skips forward to the holodeck scene. Then, you need to figure out one last part of the puzzle before you can power the FTL drive on and leave.

Tasks:
- [ ] ~~Add a button to turn on the beacon circuit, so that it matches what you have to do in the reactor room.~~ We don't have a button small enough to use where I would like to put it, and generally it seems like players are not having issues with this part of the game.
- [x] ~~Change thruster monitor to show data sendoff instead~~ Changed this to imply that the thrusters cannot be fixed.

Watching another playtest:
- [x] Swap the position of the comms drive so that it's not under the screen, since the hint about where the card is is related to that
- [x] What about numbers that are 11 should mention how 5 + 6 is 11
- [ ] Add more diagetic clues about how the card system works, like scraps of paper showing how to calculate each number in the sequence.
