---
created: 2024-10-28T18:01:09Z
---

_no signal_ stream 133:
- Copied TODOs from [20241027200127](20241027200127.md)
- Want to add a new printer interaction, but I realized that I could simplify all of the mounting logic and I decided to do that first.
- Started working on Nevaeh's quest
- Grabbing the cursor meant that you couldn't see where the mouse was and it would teleport back to the middle. This made interacting with the game weird, because you normally want to click on something after orbiting/looking/panning. So, I decided to wrap the cursor instead [20241029000745](20241029000745.md)

TODO:
- [x] Keep anchor hidden after WASD movement until anchor is set again
- [ ] Hide a fuse in the elevator room against the sides of the wall? Maybe under something?
- [ ] Add keyboard controls for chat log
- [ ] Maybe I should add a clue to the environment about the comms card also working for the storage room?
- [x] Grab the cursor on right click
- [ ] Add a way for the player to know what the cards look like before they go looking for one? https://steamcommunity.com/app/2840590/discussions/0/4703538708011162084/#c4703539342753139244
- [ ] Add elevator icon to reactor scene? People tend to think that the elevator card is for the EVA room
- [ ] Add lockbox
- [x] Add 3D printer parts
- [ ] Add 3D printer head pickup sound
- [x] Add 3D printer interaction
- [ ] Missing probe model with separate hull geo?
- [x] Ask tanuki to create new key graphics
- [x] Improve wall hiding on corner in hallways
- [ ] Add dialog for Nevaeh's quest
- [ ] Fuse pickup sound is missing
- [ ] 1G door closing sound and sparks sfx needs more work, also we need a particle effect to emphasize the fuse breaking
- [ ] Add door close sound
- [ ] Bedroom fixture needs sounds
- [ ] Safe keypad is still interactable after safe is open
- [ ] Sometimes the anchor point is wrong when you select an item, not sure how to reproduce.
- [ ] Add audio when hovering over door or keypad https://steamcommunity.com/app/2840590/discussions/0/6857382246109938235/
- [ ] [#15](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/15) Add OCR for handwritten notes
- [ ] [#16](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/16) Item highlight assist mode
- [ ] [#34](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/34) Add input remapping support
- [ ] [#43](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/43) Add option to toggle look and orbit controls
- [ ] [#44](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/44) Controller support
- [ ] I could break the cassette tapes sometimes, which means you need to manually re-wind the tape back into the cassette.
- [ ] Maybe we should color coordinate drives and computers? I didn't like it when I did this before, but maybe I could approach the problem in a different way... Also, the colors would mostly be useful for people who don't read but I'm designing a game that depends a lot on reading.
- [ ] Change sensitivity settings to use text input instead of sliders, or increase granularity to something impossibly annoying (might need to add something to increase how fast the slider moves if you hold down one direction), or show both a slider and a text box, or add a stateful toggle between text input and slider value
- [ ] Add way to reset setting to defaults
- [ ] People tend to double click on things, which cancels the camera movement. Maybe I can detect double clicks and handle them?
- [ ] Add version check to main menu
- [ ] Add save game selection to main menu
- [ ] Frame rate limit option
- [ ] Add z and c to rotate clockwise or counter-clockwise?
