---
created: 2024-09-22T20:54:49Z
---

A friend told me about INDIE Live Expo, which is scheduled for December 7th, 2024 JST. The application is free and the deadline is on October 7th 11:59 AM JST. I've submitted _no signal_ to it.

The application is here: https://indie.live-expo.games/en/entry/

I don't know much about the event, but it appears that they will have an event page on Steam and it seems to target Asian gamers as the application deadlines are in JST and it asked for Japanese, Chinese, and Korean names for the title I was submitting.

Their website is also scarce on details about the event, but their Twitch page thankfully has some information:

> # Information
>
> The hottest information from more than 300 indie games!
>
> Program content
> 
> INDIE Waves  
> Introducing released games submitted from around the world in a rapid succession regardless of playable platforms.
>
> Publisher Selection  
> Introducing new information and footage of games carefully picked by game publishers.
>
> Game Pick-up  
> Featuring games that should be played, selected by the INDIE Live Expo Board and Media Partners.
>
> Indie Studios Around the World  
> There are many indie games that are created from local culture and history in various countries and regions. This segment offers a new way to enjoy games from a new perspective by experiencing where the studios come from.
>
> INDIE Live Premiere  
> Introducing the newest information on upcoming hot indie games selected by the Board.
>
> What is INDIE Live Expo
>
> An information filled program bringing you hottest indie game news.  
> The event is broadcasted in Japanese, Chinese, and English, with more than 1,800 games shown and collected over 73,000,000 views worldwide.
>
> This is a global streaming event for all indie gamers around the world.
>
> ▼ Official site  
> https://indie.live-expo.games/en/
>
> ▼ Official Twitter  
> https://twitter.com/INDIELiveExpo (JP)  
> https://twitter.com/INDIELiveExpoEN (EN)

So I guess it's an online streaming event focusing on "indie games", although I haven't seen any specification of what that means. At most, the application asks you how many development members are on your core staff, allowing you to select between 1, 2-5, 6-10, 11-30, and more than 31 people.

It appears this event also happened last year in December 2023: https://indie.live-expo.games/en/15181/