---
created: 2024-11-19T18:57:13Z
---

_no signal_ stream 146:
- Copied TODOs from [20241118210041](20241118210041.md)
- Implemented a custom editor dock called "Barcode" last night to store the item data in a singleton
	- Also learned about metadata variables last night, and I now think it would be appropriate to store the item data in it for this application
	- Also need to do a lot of refactoring to get all of the code up to date with the new barcode system

Waiting on Tanuki:
- [ ] Incomplete FTL Probe with separate hull and FTL drive models
- [ ] Card textures for EVA, Cupola, Dorm 2G
- [ ] Add a place to hook up the 3d printer wire
- [ ] A version of `sm_props_plastic_box_flat_a` with the lid separated, so I can add an opened fuse box on the floor in the common storage to hint at an extra fuse
- [ ] Vessel model
- [ ] Note in Bobby's room needs updated handwriting
- [ ] `sm_props_tvunit`, `sm_props_cart_metal_drawer` don't have separate doors
- [ ] Remove collision from cords on server rack in communications room

TODOs:
- [x] Migrate barcode storage to metadata variables
- [x] Migrate items in all of the scenes
- [x] Move item popup to overlay scene
- [x] Update orbit controls to detect barcode metadata and open the item popup in the overlay
- [ ] One of the menus might not have right click to leave the menu or the player meant that it's not described in the controls. Probably need to improve the controls UI to describe all the inputs, though I might want to wait until I add support for rebinding controls.

Sounds:
- [ ] Key pickup
- [ ] Add dripping sounds to bathroom
- [ ] Add sounds to expert system login
- [ ] Add sounds to probe UI
- [ ] Add audio when hovering over door or keypad https://steamcommunity.com/app/2840590/discussions/0/6857382246109938235/

Bobby's Quest:
- [ ] Drop bobby's secret room and the dialog hinting at it? Don't think I have time to implement it. Not sure what to replace this with.

Naoko's Quest:
- [ ] Add FTL prototype in lockbox
- [ ] Add clue to office about which lab the lockbox is in

Improved clues:
- [ ] Add a way for the player to know what the cards look like before they go looking for one? https://steamcommunity.com/app/2840590/discussions/0/4703538708011162084/#c4703539342753139244
- [ ] Add a clue to tell the player where to go after the communications room
- [ ] Make the reactor sliding puzzle brighter or more noticeable
- [ ] Add transparency to the lid of the fuse box or a note to help people find the fuses in the storage room

TODO:
- [ ] Add a map button
- [ ] Add option for mouse capture instead of mouse wrap for the look controls
- [ ] Add a setting to disable mouse warp on edges, since it doesn't work on Wayland.
- [ ] Add keyboard controls for chat log
- [ ] [#15](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/15) Add OCR for handwritten notes
- [ ] [#16](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/16) Item highlight assist mode
- [ ] [#34](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/34) Add input remapping support
- [ ] [#43](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/43) Add option to toggle look and orbit controls
- [ ] [#44](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/44) Controller support
- [ ] I could break the cassette tapes sometimes, which means you need to manually re-wind the tape back into the cassette.
- [ ] Change sensitivity settings to use text input instead of sliders, or increase granularity to something impossibly annoying (might need to add something to increase how fast the slider moves if you hold down one direction), or show both a slider and a text box, or add a stateful toggle between text input and slider value
- [ ] Add way to reset setting to defaults
- [ ] People tend to double click on things, which cancels the camera movement. Maybe I can detect double clicks and handle them?
- [ ] Add version check to main menu
- [ ] Add save game selection to main menu
- [ ] Add z and c to rotate clockwise or counter-clockwise?
- [ ] Door sounds play on main menu when starting new game, i think because the save state is reset and that causes the doors to realize that they need to change to the closed state.

Unsure:
- [ ] Add gamma control so that players can adjust brightness
- [ ] Sometimes the anchor point is wrong when you select an item, not sure how to reproduce.
- [ ] Maybe we should color coordinate drives and computers? I didn't like it when I did this before, but maybe I could approach the problem in a different way... Also, the colors would mostly be useful for people who don't read but I'm designing a game that depends a lot on reading.
- [ ] Pivot camera to look at hint bubble?
- [ ] Auto-select first empty slot when clicking on drive bays
- [ ] Add previews to audio settings
- [ ] Show button on screen when in stair or door region
