---
created: 2024-09-12T18:28:33Z
---

_no signal_ stream day 116:

Actually not sure what to do for the rest of the game at this moment, so I'm re-accustoming myself to the scenes.

We have the following scenes, which are accessible after taking the elevator:
- Medbay
- Meeting Room
- Library
- Gym
- Activity Room
- Storage Room
- Kitchen
- Bathroom

The original intention was to get the player to visit the Quarters, so we need to add dialog and puzzles which give you access to that space. I think we can restrict access to the following spaces: Library, Medbay, Gym, Kitchen. That leaves these rooms:

- Meeting Room
- Activity Room
- Storage Room
- Bathroom

We can add hints on where to go in the meeting room and hide more drives in the storage room and activity room. I don't think we need to do anything in the bathroom. We can add a signal to the activity room.

I need to introduce players to what needs to be done to complete the game, so we need to give the player clues about how to fix the experimental FTL device:
- Experimental hull from Bobby
- Trajectory calculation from Neil
- Speed calculation from Nevaeh
- Energy calculation from Naoko

First, we can focus on printing the experimental hull.

Was looking into the shader instance parameter error, but couldn't find anything definitive in the Godot documentation warning against potential leaks when using the property (see [blog post](https://godotengine.org/article/godot-40-gets-global-and-instance-shader-uniforms/) and [official documentation](https://docs.godotengine.org/en/4.3/tutorials/shaders/shader_reference/shading_language.html#per-instance-uniforms)). I think we'll sidestep the issue by changing the material on the target surfaces instead.

I also forgot to fix the duplication bug, I should fix that tomorrow.