---
created: 2024-05-30T17:23:41Z
---

While working on _no signal_, I ran into an issue where the game lags whenever the GUI changes.

After [20240529195943](20240529195943.md), I decided to implement a feature where the chat log changes between a non-corrupted version and a corrupted version whenever the corruption state changes. This was done by deleting all of the old nodes and generating new ones. However, this resulted in a significant lag of 2 seconds whenever this happened.

At first I thought this was due to the performance of my text corruption function but upon investigation, all of my scripts took a very small fraction of the processing time. However, the total processing time was still very large and I didn't know where the time was being spent.

Doing a cursory search online, I found this topic on the Godot Discourse:

> [shinyu6](https://forum.godotengine.org/t/what-is-included-in-process-time-in-the-built-in-profiler-besides-script-process-time/1200/2):
>
> Answering my own question: I was able to tab into the Visual Profiler and figure this out but I had to wait a few seconds before data started appearing, which showed that bottlenecking was occurring on the GPU not the CPU. I was also able to get more information from going Project Settings → Advanced Settings → Print GPU profile, which made it obvious that most of the issue was in the “Render CanvasItems” step.

Some other issues I found that _might_ be relevant, but I'm not convinced they are necessarily related:
- [Large number of CanvasItems in the scene slow down input (godot/godotengine#56199)](https://github.com/godotengine/godot/issues/56199)
- [Poor performance of 2D Tree View with many items (godot/godotengine#70869)](https://github.com/godotengine/godot/issues/70869)
- [`Control::_size_changed()` is slower than necessary (godot/godotengine#86011)](https://github.com/godotengine/godot/issues/86011)

It appears this problem only shows up in Godot 4.0 with the Forward+ renderer. In 3.0 or if you're using the compatibility renderer, this specific performance issue does not appear to exist

Working off of this, I guessed that the performance issue was due to the time it took to lay out all of the controls in the UI. So, I simplified the chat log UI in several ways:

- Reuse controls when possible instead of creating new ones. It appears to be cheaper to change the text than to add a new control that has alternate text on it due to the reduced number of things that need to be considered during the layout function.
- Use less controls, especially containers, whenever possible.

These changes let me reduce the time spent from 2 seconds to about 300 milliseconds.
