---
created: 2024-10-27T20:01:27Z
---

working on _no signal_ offline:
- Copied TODOs from [20241024190113](20241024190113.md), [20241025041200](20241025041200.md), [20241026162805](20241026162805.md), and [20241027004348](20241027004348.md)

TODO (demo):
- [x] You can drag the settings view while dragging a slider
- [x] Use up/down controls to navigate between rows in card writer
- [ ] Keep anchor hidden after WASD movement until anchor is set again
- [x] Maybe reduce volume of all sounds? Maybe just the safe keypad
- [x] WASD left/right controls don't go to next row in card writer when at the end or beginning of a row
- [ ] ~~Decorative lights for elevator room near the door should be green instead of red~~ Changed my mind. I want it to stay the same color as the hallway theme, which is red.
- [x] Elevator chamber shutters are visible when door is open
- [ ] Hide a fuse in the elevator room against the sides of the wall? Maybe under something?
- [ ] Add keyboard controls for chat log
- [ ] Maybe I should add a clue to the environment about the comms card also working for the storage room?
- [ ] ~~There's an item that looks like a pencil that should be labeled as a ballpoint pen?~~ Can't find the item
- [ ] Grab the cursor on right click
- [ ] Add a way for the player to know what the cards look like before they go looking for one? https://steamcommunity.com/app/2840590/discussions/0/4703538708011162084/#c4703539342753139244
- [ ] Add elevator icon to reactor scene? People tend to think that the elevator card is for the EVA room
- [x] Flash download button in signal UI?

TODO (full game):
- [ ] Add lockbox
- [ ] Add 3D printer parts
- [ ] Add 3D printer interaction
- [ ] Ask tanuki to create new key graphics
- [x] Update the localization for 2e and 2f logs
- [ ] Improve wall hiding on corner in hallways
- [x] Meeting room signal misspells Nevaeh
- [x] No bins in bathroom
- [x] Add sprint input for WASD movement
- [ ] Fuse pickup sound is missing
- [ ] 1G door closing sound and sparks sfx needs more work, also we need a particle effect to emphasize the fuse breaking
- [ ] Add door close sound
- [ ] Bedroom fixture needs sounds
- [ ] Safe keypad is still interactable after safe is open

**For later:**
- [ ] Sometimes the anchor point is wrong when you select an item, not sure how to reproduce.
- [ ] Add audio when hovering over door or keypad https://steamcommunity.com/app/2840590/discussions/0/6857382246109938235/
- [ ] [#15](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/15) Add OCR for handwritten notes
- [ ] [#16](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/16) Item highlight assist mode
- [ ] [#34](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/34) Add input remapping support
- [ ] [#43](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/43) Add option to toggle look and orbit controls
- [ ] [#44](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/44) Controller support
- [x] [#45](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/45) Add shortcut for opening inventory
- [x] [#46](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/46) Add scroll wheel input to number spin box
- [ ] I could break the cassette tapes sometimes, which means you need to manually re-wind the tape back into the cassette.
- [ ] Maybe we should color coordinate drives and computers? I didn't like it when I did this today, but maybe I could approach the problem in a different way... Also, the colors would mostly be useful for people who don't read but I'm designing a game that depends a lot on reading.
- [ ] Change sensitivity settings to use text input instead of sliders, or increase granularity to something impossibly annoying (might need to add something to increase how fast the slider moves if you hold down one direction), or show both a slider and a text box, or add a stateful toggle between text input and slider value
- [ ] Add way to reset setting to defaults
- [ ] People tend to double click on things, which cancels the camera movement. Maybe I can detect double clicks and handle them?
- [ ] Add version check to main menu
- [ ] Add save game selection to main menu
- [ ] Frame rate limit option
- [ ] Add z and c to rotate clockwise or counter-clockwise?
