---
created: 2024-11-05T21:39:25Z
---

_no signal_ stream 136:
- Thinking about what to do about the probe in the game. I think there should actually _three_ spacecraft aboard the Dutchman:
	- The standard-issue slower-than-light probes for scientific research, intended to just be destroyed as they fall into the black hole. we use this to let the player look at the black hole.
	- The faster-than-light probe that spirit builds out of the slower-than-light probes as a last ditch effort. it's the regular probe, but with a bigger radio transmitter attached to it. Bobby gives the tidal-resistant hull so it can cross the event horizon and later Naoko one-ups the plan by giving the FTL drive to spirit so that it can exit the black hole again.
	- The faster-than-light vessel that spirit builds after the last ditch effort plan fails and they find themselves stuck on the station and it falls into the event horizon. This is the thing the player gets into after the twist
- Copied TODOS from [20241031171520](20241031171520.md)
- Apparently, the _voluntary commitment_ builds have finally been distributed to backers on backerkit as I've been DM'd by a backer who has played it.
- Got a bug report for _voluntary commitment_: https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/null/issues/1

TODO:
- [x] Get Tanuki reference images or concept art for FTL probe/vessel

Missing card textures:
- [ ] EVA Card
- [ ] Cupola Card

Received feedback from Austin Glitch State playtester:
- [x] Lower hint cooldown
- [ ] ~~Pivot camera to look at hint bubble?~~ Unsure if I want to do this
- [ ] Add a clue to tell the player where to go after the communications room

Improved clues:
- [ ] Is there a clue telling you where bobby's room is in spirit's room?
- [ ] add clue saying where the work area is
- [ ] Maybe I should add a clue to the environment about the comms card also working for the storage room?
- [ ] Add a way for the player to know what the cards look like before they go looking for one? https://steamcommunity.com/app/2840590/discussions/0/4703538708011162084/#c4703539342753139244
- [ ] Add elevator icon to reactor scene? People tend to think that the elevator card is for the EVA room
- [ ] Add clue to office about which lab the lockbox is in

Bobby's Quest:
- [ ] Implement 3d printer computer UI
- [ ] Missing probe model with separate hull geo?
- [ ] 1G door closing sound and sparks sfx needs more work, also we need a particle effect to emphasize the fuse breaking
- [x] Connect the EVA scene to the game
- [x] Update card reader to display more nicely with 9 rows

Naoko's Quest:
- [ ] Add FTL prototype in lockbox
- [ ] Add lockbox key to item map

Sounds:
- [ ] Add 3D printer head pickup sound
- [ ] Fuse pickup sound is missing
- [ ] meeting room, study, etc has no ambiance
- [ ] Add door close sound
- [ ] Bedroom fixture needs sounds
- [ ] Add 3D printer head and printer spool to item map

TODO:
- [x] Already-inserted cards are magenta after loading scene.
- [ ] add door state to save
- [ ] Add keyboard controls for chat log
- [ ] Sometimes the anchor point is wrong when you select an item, not sure how to reproduce.
- [ ] [#15](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/15) Add OCR for handwritten notes
- [ ] [#16](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/16) Item highlight assist mode
- [ ] [#34](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/34) Add input remapping support
- [ ] [#43](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/43) Add option to toggle look and orbit controls
- [ ] [#44](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/44) Controller support
- [ ] I could break the cassette tapes sometimes, which means you need to manually re-wind the tape back into the cassette.
- [ ] Change sensitivity settings to use text input instead of sliders, or increase granularity to something impossibly annoying (might need to add something to increase how fast the slider moves if you hold down one direction), or show both a slider and a text box, or add a stateful toggle between text input and slider value
- [ ] Add way to reset setting to defaults
- [ ] People tend to double click on things, which cancels the camera movement. Maybe I can detect double clicks and handle them?
- [ ] Add version check to main menu
- [ ] Add save game selection to main menu
- [ ] Frame rate limit option
- [ ] Add z and c to rotate clockwise or counter-clockwise?

unsure if I want to do:
- [ ] Maybe we should color coordinate drives and computers? I didn't like it when I did this before, but maybe I could approach the problem in a different way... Also, the colors would mostly be useful for people who don't read but I'm designing a game that depends a lot on reading.
- [ ] Add audio when hovering over door or keypad https://steamcommunity.com/app/2840590/discussions/0/6857382246109938235/
- [ ] Pivot camera to look at hint bubble?
