---
created: 2024-10-21T15:22:31Z
---

_no signal_ stream 130:
- Included more player feedback from discord server in TODO lists
- Included feedback from [20241020041506](20241020041506.md) in TODO lists
- Learned that Godot is only kinda memory managed [20241021200223](20241021200223.md)

TODO (demo):
- [ ] Look sensitivity setting is missing
- [ ] You can drag the settings view while dragging a slider
- [ ] Use up/down controls to navigate between rows in card writer
- [ ] Keep anchor hidden after WASD movement until anchor is set again
- [ ] Maybe reduce volume of all sounds? Maybe just the safe keypad
- [ ] WASD left/right controls don't go to next row in card writer when at the end or beginning of a row
- [ ] Decorative lights for elevator room near the door should be green instead of red
- [ ] Elevator chamber shutters are visible when door is open
- [ ] Hide a fuse in the elevator room against the sides of the wall? Maybe under something?
- [ ] Add keyboard controls for chat log
- [ ] There's an item that looks like a pencil that should be labeled as a ballpoint pen?

TODO (full game):
- [x] Update system requirements on Steam to not include architectures that I'm not distributing
- [x] Make stair cover clickable
- [x] Make staircase more obvious as a transition point (add some kind of fade or black fog)
- [x] None of the quarters rooms are connected correctly
- [x] Camera reset doesn't work in hallways
- [x] Add 1C card to beacon group
- [x] The wrong study card writer is connected
- [x] Study b drives don't lock
- [x] [#14](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/14) shader instance parameter error
- [x] Playtesters tend to not be very familiar with how to record themselves playing a game well. I should write a guide explaining how to do that. [20241022033648](20241022033648.md)
- [ ] Improve wall hiding on corner in hallways
- [ ] Meeting room signal misspells Nevaeh
- [ ] No bins in bathroom
- [ ] Add sprint input for WASD movement
- [ ] Add z and c to rotate clockwise or counter-clockwise?
- [ ] Frame rate limit option
- [ ] Fuse pickup sound is missing
- [ ] 1G door closing sound and sparks sfx needs more work, also we need a particle effect to emphasize the fuse breaking
- [ ] Add door close sound
- [ ] Bedroom fixture needs sounds

**For later:**
- [ ] Sometimes the anchor point is wrong when you select an item, not sure how to reproduce.
- [ ] Add audio when hovering over door or keypad https://steamcommunity.com/app/2840590/discussions/0/6857382246109938235/
- [ ] [#15](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/15) Add OCR for handwritten notes
- [ ] [#16](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/16) Item highlight assist mode
- [ ] [#34](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/34) Add input remapping support
- [ ] [#43](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/43) Add option to toggle look and orbit controls
- [ ] [#44](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/44) Controller support
- [ ] [#45](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/45) Add shortcut for opening inventory
- [ ] [#46](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/46) Add scroll wheel input to number spin box
- [ ] I could break the cassette tapes sometimes, which means you need to manually re-wind the tape back into the cassette.
- [ ] Maybe we should color coordinate drives and computers? I didn't like it when I did this today, but maybe I could approach the problem in a different way... Also, the colors would mostly be useful for people who don't read but I'm designing a game that depends a lot on reading.
