_no signal_ stream 114:
- Digitized the notes from San Japan ([20240906_154815](20240906_154815.md))
- The next Ushicon is on February 7th-9th 2025.

Maintenance:
- [x] Update to Godot 4.3
- [x] Stop music when starting new game
- [x] You can press button before puzzle
- [x] WASD breaks after using hint?
- [x] Need to focus start button on title
- [ ] ~~Popups can stay open somehow?~~ Sometimes the anchor point is wrong when you select an item, not sure how to reproduce.
- [ ] ~~Cannot select pencil or scissors?~~
- [x] Cinematic is skipped if you double click?

Placement issues:
- [x] Clipboard decal is on both sides
- [x] Scissors in ceiling?

Copy changes:
- [ ] ~~Add comment about clipping~~ There doesn't seem to be a good place to add this in any of the communication dialogs.
- [x] Add a comment about elevator/comms card needing to be used on both doors
- [x] Prank dialog should say access card instead of key
- [x] Say the access card is for opening a door

Improving game flow:
- [ ] Add screen in comms saying reactor is off
- [x] Add writer logo/title
- [ ] Split elevator wall and gangway in reactor
- [x] Add wire to elevator circuit
- [x] In elev b, say elevator is out of order

Hint System:
- [x] Don't show hint immediately
- [x] Make hint progressively smaller when used for the same hint consecutively
- [x] Make hint system work for all key items incl Access Cards

Card writer refactor:
- [x] Remove index column
- [x] Add vertical hint
- [x] Update copy accordingly
- [x] Give an explicit example of overflow, for example: "the digits in 11 are 1 and 1, so..."

Drive Bay refactor:
- [x] Add symbol to drive light for colorblind players
- [x] Extend hitbox on external drive day
- [ ] Change encrypted error for logs to be more descriptive
- [x] Download animation for logs is broken when doing multiple downloads in reverse order

Later:
- Add brute force option
- Add a way to take notes?
- Find ways to encourage more clipping, add geometry showing the bounds of the outside room?
- Sometimes the anchor point is wrong when you select an item, not sure how to reproduce.
