---
created: 2024-12-10T14:56:15Z
---

_no signal_ stream 155:
- Copied TODOs from [20241208191843](20241208191843.md) and [20241209221757](20241209221757.md)

Work Area:
- [x] electric guitar and wood instrument missing labels in music room
- [x] radio lab has chopstick on floor that is not colored correctly
- [x] green room outer wall isn't configured correctly
- [x] server room computer image is missing
- [x] Item view doesn't close when clicking on screen in server room
- [x] make ambience in lower work hallway louder due to server room
- [x] make server room less loud (should be able to hear music)
- [x] Move holodeck label to working area
- [x] label work hallway rooms
- [x] gravity backup walls not configured correctly
- [x] item overlay doesn't appear in gravity backup

Common Area:
- [x] meeting-a theories "anomaly" is misspelled
- [x] ~~study-b alone, "Nevaeh" is misspelled~~ Supposed to be Naoko, not Nevaeh
- [x] activity room work hallway door cover is not visible
- [x] painkiller bottle in restroom not colored correctly
- [x] kitchen lights are z-fighting
- [x] Disable collision shape in medbay inner door
- [x] common storage camera not far enough away from door
- [x] label items in medbay
- [x] label items in kitchen
- [x] label items in gym

Bedrooms:
- [x] 1a-a gravity has incorrect speaker
- [x] 1a-a work area has extra space in last message
- [x] 1g map doesn't have item view component
- [x] 1g nightstand items are not labeled correctly
- [ ] ~~1g-a item description is missing~~ don't remember what this is about
- [x] 1g-a time dialog "I" is not capitalized
- [x] 1g rug should be double-sided
- [x] 2e-a key missing word between "Did" and "manage"
- [x] 2f note under rug isn't on the right rendering layer
- [x] 2g drawer collides with drive bay
- [x] 2g has duplicate door in hallway
- [x] bedroom cabinet sound might need to be cleaned up more

Cupola:
- [ ] office card clue in 2g does not have corresponding card in 1a, maybe replace with the cupola card?
- [ ] Use G or I in cupola card?
- [ ] Connect cupola room

Item labeling:
- [ ] label items in EVA
- [ ] Inspecting FTL probe hull crashes the game
- [ ] Some item labels and descriptions are `<null>` for some reason?

Content:
- [ ] Add all quest-critical items to hint system (like probe parts)
- [ ] Add more shark plushies
- [ ] Add shark plushie collection spot in Naoko's room
- [ ] Add chess game
- [ ] Add more dialog to work rooms
- [ ] Add more puzzles to work rooms
- [ ] Add ability to slide circuit buttons
- [ ] Drop bobby's secret room and the dialog hinting at it? Don't think I have time to implement it. Not sure what to replace this with.
- [ ] Add clue to office about which lab the lockbox is in
- [ ] Add a way for the player to know what the cards look like before they go looking for one? https://steamcommunity.com/app/2840590/discussions/0/4703538708011162084/#c4703539342753139244
- [ ] Add a clue to tell the player where to go after the communications room
- [ ] Make the reactor sliding puzzle brighter or more noticeable
- [x] Add transparency to the lid of the fuse box or a note to help people find the fuses in the storage room
- [ ] Make toilets flushable
- [ ] Add a hint somewhere that all of the sequences are the same on all of the cards
- [ ] Add a paper slip showing all of the card sequence roots

TODO:
- [ ] Should not be able to open inventory with tab when pgeist circuit is broken
- [ ] degauss effect only happens for one computer
- [ ] Fade audio in and out when entering and exiting rooms
- [ ] i forgot to include neveah's thrust calculation for the probe in the office and as a requirement in the EVA
- [x] Lower safe volume?
- [ ] Add keyboard controls for chat log
- [ ] [#34](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/34) Add input remapping support
- [ ] [#43](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/43) Add option to toggle look and orbit controls

Sounds:
- [ ] `sm_lab_counter` open/close
- [ ] Add different audio for metal dust box
- [ ] Printing sound
- [ ] `sm_props_cart_metal_drawer` open/close
- [ ] Cupboard open/close
- [ ] Key pickup
- [ ] Add dripping sounds to bathroom
- [ ] Add sounds to expert system login
- [ ] Add sounds to probe UI
- [ ] Add audio when hovering over door or keypad https://steamcommunity.com/app/2840590/discussions/0/6857382246109938235/

Unsure:
- [ ] People tend to double click on things, which cancels the camera movement. Maybe I can detect double clicks and handle them?
- [ ] Add a map button
- [ ] [#15](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/15) Add OCR for handwritten notes
- [ ] [#16](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/16) Item highlight assist mode
- [ ] [#44](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/44) Controller support
- [ ] I could break the cassette tapes sometimes, which means you need to manually re-wind the tape back into the cassette.
- [ ] Add gamma control so that players can adjust brightness
- [ ] Sometimes the anchor point is wrong when you select an item, not sure how to reproduce.
- [ ] Maybe we should color coordinate drives and computers? I didn't like it when I did this before, but maybe I could approach the problem in a different way... Also, the colors would mostly be useful for people who don't read but I'm designing a game that depends a lot on reading.
- [ ] Pivot camera to look at hint bubble?
- [ ] Auto-select first empty slot when clicking on drive bays
- [ ] Add previews to audio settings
- [ ] Show button on screen when in stair or door region
