---
created: 2024-10-30T23:51:24Z
---

working on _no signal_ offline:
- Copied TODOs from [20241029190901](20241029190901.md)

Watching playtest for v0.27:
- [ ] Clicking _most_ items causes the game to crash. seems to happen for items that belong to collections?
- [x] study camera is too close to door
- [x] z fighting in study trash can
- [x] unclickable drive in first study bookshelf near the wall
- [x] change drives so they always flash
- [ ] meeting room, study, etc has no ambiance
- [x] electrical plugs in gym don't line up
- [x] meeting room plan dialog has speaker set incorrectly, spirit's capitalization is wrong
- [x] activity room cable on the staircase is clipping
- [x] bathroom trash clips
- [x] bathroom ceiling broken
- [x] add clickable door cover for staircase from downstairs
- [x] activity tour dialog has incorrect speakers
- [ ] add metal wire to storage room
- [x] elevator wall hiding happens too soon
- [x] boxes in hallway clip floor
- [x] 1g-a lockbox "it's can't" typo
- [ ] Is there a clue telling you where bobby's room is in spirit's room?
- [x] bobby drives still say 1c
- [x] 2E crashes the game
- [x] 2F not connected to hallway
- [ ] add door state to save
- [ ] rename hallway
- [x] 2c-a theories has indentation typo
- [ ] add clue saying where the work area is
- [x] drive indicators in office don't work
- [x] inventory ui isn't behind the list when you zoom in on an item

TODO:
- [ ] Hide a fuse in the elevator room against the sides of the wall? Maybe under something?
- [ ] Add keyboard controls for chat log
- [ ] Maybe I should add a clue to the environment about the comms card also working for the storage room?
- [ ] Add a way for the player to know what the cards look like before they go looking for one? https://steamcommunity.com/app/2840590/discussions/0/4703538708011162084/#c4703539342753139244
- [ ] Add elevator icon to reactor scene? People tend to think that the elevator card is for the EVA room
- [ ] Add lockbox
- [ ] Add 3D printer head pickup sound
- [ ] Missing probe model with separate hull geo?
- [ ] Fuse pickup sound is missing
- [ ] 1G door closing sound and sparks sfx needs more work, also we need a particle effect to emphasize the fuse breaking
- [ ] Add door close sound
- [ ] Bedroom fixture needs sounds
- [ ] Safe keypad is still interactable after safe is open
- [ ] Sometimes the anchor point is wrong when you select an item, not sure how to reproduce.
- [ ] Add audio when hovering over door or keypad https://steamcommunity.com/app/2840590/discussions/0/6857382246109938235/
- [ ] [#15](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/15) Add OCR for handwritten notes
- [ ] [#16](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/16) Item highlight assist mode
- [ ] [#34](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/34) Add input remapping support
- [ ] [#43](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/43) Add option to toggle look and orbit controls
- [ ] [#44](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/44) Controller support
- [ ] I could break the cassette tapes sometimes, which means you need to manually re-wind the tape back into the cassette.
- [ ] Maybe we should color coordinate drives and computers? I didn't like it when I did this before, but maybe I could approach the problem in a different way... Also, the colors would mostly be useful for people who don't read but I'm designing a game that depends a lot on reading.
- [ ] Change sensitivity settings to use text input instead of sliders, or increase granularity to something impossibly annoying (might need to add something to increase how fast the slider moves if you hold down one direction), or show both a slider and a text box, or add a stateful toggle between text input and slider value
- [ ] Add way to reset setting to defaults
- [ ] People tend to double click on things, which cancels the camera movement. Maybe I can detect double clicks and handle them?
- [ ] Add version check to main menu
- [ ] Add save game selection to main menu
- [ ] Frame rate limit option
- [ ] Add z and c to rotate clockwise or counter-clockwise?
