---
created: 2024-11-08T18:33:00Z
---

_no signal_ stream 139:
- Copied TODOs from [20241107204603](20241107204603.md)
- Getting a new build ready for playtesting
- Talked to a Godot core maintainer about the import pipeline for Godot and how it could be improved, I should follow up later and get advice on how to write a compelling proposal.

Bobby's Quest:
- [x] Turn 3D file into 4-disk hidden object puzzle, and update the dialog accordingly
- [ ] Missing probe model with separate hull geo?
- [ ] Add a place to hook up the printer wire?
- [ ] Add missing EVA Card texture

Sounds:
- [x] Bedroom fixture needs sounds
- [ ] Key pickup

Nevaeh's Quest:
- [ ] Add missing Dorm 2G Card

Naoko's Quest:
- [ ] Add FTL prototype in lockbox
- [ ] Add clue to office about which lab the lockbox is in

Improved clues:
- [ ] Maybe I should add a clue to the environment about the comms card also working for the storage room?
- [ ] Add a way for the player to know what the cards look like before they go looking for one? https://steamcommunity.com/app/2840590/discussions/0/4703538708011162084/#c4703539342753139244
- [ ] Add elevator icon to reactor scene? People tend to think that the elevator card is for the EVA room
- [ ] Add a clue to tell the player where to go after the communications room
- [ ] Add missing Cupola Card texture
- [ ] Add opened fuse box on the floor in common storage to hint at extra fuse?

TODO:
- [ ] Keep drive button order the same if possible when inserting drives
- [x] When clicking on an opened door, do not move the anchor because no UI appears.
- [x] Fuses don't stay removed when they are spent.
- [ ] add door state to save
- [ ] Add keyboard controls for chat log
- [ ] [#15](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/15) Add OCR for handwritten notes
- [ ] [#16](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/16) Item highlight assist mode
- [ ] [#34](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/34) Add input remapping support
- [ ] [#43](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/43) Add option to toggle look and orbit controls
- [ ] [#44](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/44) Controller support
- [ ] I could break the cassette tapes sometimes, which means you need to manually re-wind the tape back into the cassette.
- [ ] Change sensitivity settings to use text input instead of sliders, or increase granularity to something impossibly annoying (might need to add something to increase how fast the slider moves if you hold down one direction), or show both a slider and a text box, or add a stateful toggle between text input and slider value
- [ ] Add way to reset setting to defaults
- [ ] People tend to double click on things, which cancels the camera movement. Maybe I can detect double clicks and handle them?
- [ ] Add version check to main menu
- [ ] Add save game selection to main menu
- [ ] Frame rate limit option
- [ ] Add z and c to rotate clockwise or counter-clockwise?
- [ ] Door sounds play on main menu when starting new game, i think because the save state is reset and that causes the doors to realize that they need to change to the closed state.

Unsure:
- [ ] Sometimes the anchor point is wrong when you select an item, not sure how to reproduce.
- [ ] Maybe we should color coordinate drives and computers? I didn't like it when I did this before, but maybe I could approach the problem in a different way... Also, the colors would mostly be useful for people who don't read but I'm designing a game that depends a lot on reading.
- [ ] Add audio when hovering over door or keypad https://steamcommunity.com/app/2840590/discussions/0/6857382246109938235/
- [ ] Pivot camera to look at hint bubble?
