stream 101 of no signal:
- Realizing that due to travel and due dates, I only have about three weeks left before I need to have a demo ready for 2D Con, San Japan, _and_ Steam Next Fest.
- Based on playtesting from the recent Austin Glitch State and Delta H Con events, the game is too hard. We need to make the game easier.
	- Add another tutorial system, which ends after the communications room
	- Need verify that the game is actually easier with playtests
- The narrative is also not as impactful as I would like, but I haven't worked on improving it in a while. I think this could be addressed if I wrote a draft for the entire narrative for the game in Twine.
- Make a shorter version of the demo for the show floor? I don't think we have time to do this, and some of the long playtime might be ameliorated by adding the new tutorial system. Maybe a pamphlet would be better.
- Found out that `texture_filter` is set to nearest filtering by default. ([20240722_203732](20240722_203732.md))

# Plan

Week 1:
- Simplify the game (remove extra card scanners)
- Make color key and adjust key colors (make card colors consistent)
- Tutorial system
- Internal playtest

Week 2:
- Write the entire game in a prototype tool like Twine
- Implement new narrative for the demo
- Internal playtest

Week 3:
- Bug fixing and polish
- Submit to steam
- Make trailer
- Make print materials to attract people to the table, which shows some of the cool stuff in the game, so that you don't need to play the entire demo to get to know what it is.
