---
created: 2024-11-24T22:33:30Z
---

I worked offline on _no signal_ today:
- Copied TODOs from [20241124041552](20241124041552.md)
- Tanuki got most of her pending items done
- Tried to refactor the localization system so that the labels and descriptions would be next to each other to make navigating the source file and the generated localization file easier to do. However, this didn't quite work due to how collections work. It will probably be easier to refactor collections first.

Waiting on Tanuki:
- [x] Incomplete FTL Probe with separate hull and FTL drive models
- [x] Card textures for EVA, Cupola, Dorm 2G
- [ ] Add a place to hook up the 3d printer wire
- [x] A version of `sm_props_plastic_box_flat_a` with the lid separated, so I can add an opened fuse box on the floor in the common storage to hint at an extra fuse
- [x] Vessel model
- [ ] Note in Bobby's room needs updated handwriting
- [x] `sm_props_tvunit`, `sm_props_cart_metal_drawer` don't have separate doors
- [ ] Remove collision from cords on server rack in communications room

Bobby's Quest:
- [ ] Drop bobby's secret room and the dialog hinting at it? Don't think I have time to implement it. Not sure what to replace this with.

Naoko's Quest:
- [ ] Add FTL prototype in lockbox
- [ ] Add clue to office about which lab the lockbox is in

TODO:
- [x] Add item labels to bathroom
- [ ] Update EVA, Cupola, and Dorm card textures
- [ ] Replace `sm_props_tvunit` and `sm_props_cart_metal_drawer` with animated versions
- [ ] Add item labels to common storage
- [ ] Add item labels to ring storage
- [ ] Add item labels to bedrooms
- [ ] Add item labels to workshop
- [ ] Add item labels to office
- [ ] Add item labels to server room
- [ ] Add item labels to energy lab
- [ ] Add item labels to gravity lab
- [ ] Add item labels to green room
- [ ] Add item labels to music room
- [ ] Add item labels to gravity backup
- [ ] Add a map button
- [ ] Add keyboard controls for chat log
- [ ] [#34](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/34) Add input remapping support
- [ ] [#43](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/43) Add option to toggle look and orbit controls
- [ ] Change sensitivity settings to use text input instead of sliders, or increase granularity to something impossibly annoying (might need to add something to increase how fast the slider moves if you hold down one direction), or show both a slider and a text box, or add a stateful toggle between text input and slider value
- [ ] Add way to reset setting to defaults
- [ ] People tend to double click on things, which cancels the camera movement. Maybe I can detect double clicks and handle them?
- [ ] Add version check to main menu
- [ ] Add save game selection to main menu
- [ ] Add z and c to rotate clockwise or counter-clockwise?
- [ ] Door sounds play on main menu when starting new game, i think because the save state is reset and that causes the doors to realize that they need to change to the closed state.

Sounds:
- [ ] Cupboard open/close
- [ ] Key pickup and unlock
- [ ] Add dripping sounds to bathroom
- [ ] Add sounds to expert system login
- [ ] Add sounds to probe UI
- [ ] Add audio when hovering over door or keypad https://steamcommunity.com/app/2840590/discussions/0/6857382246109938235/

Polish:
- [ ] Add more shark plushies
- [ ] Add shark plushie collection spot in Naoko's room
- [ ] Add chess game

Improved clues:
- [ ] Add a way for the player to know what the cards look like before they go looking for one? https://steamcommunity.com/app/2840590/discussions/0/4703538708011162084/#c4703539342753139244
- [ ] Add a clue to tell the player where to go after the communications room
- [ ] Make the reactor sliding puzzle brighter or more noticeable
- [ ] Add transparency to the lid of the fuse box or a note to help people find the fuses in the storage room

Unsure:
- [ ] [#15](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/15) Add OCR for handwritten notes
- [ ] [#16](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/16) Item highlight assist mode
- [ ] [#44](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/44) Controller support
- [ ] I could break the cassette tapes sometimes, which means you need to manually re-wind the tape back into the cassette.
- [ ] Add gamma control so that players can adjust brightness
- [ ] Sometimes the anchor point is wrong when you select an item, not sure how to reproduce.
- [ ] Maybe we should color coordinate drives and computers? I didn't like it when I did this before, but maybe I could approach the problem in a different way... Also, the colors would mostly be useful for people who don't read but I'm designing a game that depends a lot on reading.
- [ ] Pivot camera to look at hint bubble?
- [ ] Auto-select first empty slot when clicking on drive bays
- [ ] Add previews to audio settings
- [ ] Show button on screen when in stair or door region
