---
created: 2024-12-24T21:50:37Z
---

Working on _no signal_ offline:
- Copied TODOs from [20241220232205](20241220232205.md)
- Finished implementing the input remapping!
- While working on implementing the input remapping, I realized that implementing the toggle control would be fairly straightforward if i could insert a step between Godot's input API and the camera controller code which emulates the mouse button down and mouse button up events based on the state of the toggle.

TODO:
- [ ] Update Rig controls to use Input Map
- [x] Fade only the ambiance when moving between scenes
- [x] 2G card doesn't work on bedroom hallway cardpad
- [x] Verify that all key items are in the Beacon group
- [ ] Update activity room to have a light on the circuit puzzle, or make the room brighter
- [ ] i forgot to include neveah's thrust calculation for the probe in the office and as a requirement in the EVA
- [ ] Add keyboard controls for chat log
- [x] [#34](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/34) Add input remapping support
- [ ] [#43](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/43) Add option to toggle look and orbit controls

Sounds:
- [ ] Thruster pickup sound
- [ ] probe assembly sounds
- [ ] Add dripping sounds to bathroom
- [ ] Add audio when hovering over door or keypad https://steamcommunity.com/app/2840590/discussions/0/6857382246109938235/

Content:
- [ ] Add more shark plushies
- [ ] Add shark plushie collection spot in Naoko's room
- [ ] Add chess game
- [ ] Add more dialog to work rooms
- [ ] Add more puzzles to work rooms
- [ ] Add ability to slide circuit buttons
- [ ] Add clue to office about which lab the lockbox is in
- [ ] Add a way for the player to know what the cards look like before they go looking for one? https://steamcommunity.com/app/2840590/discussions/0/4703538708011162084/#c4703539342753139244
- [ ] Add a clue to tell the player where to go after the communications room
- [ ] Make the reactor sliding puzzle brighter or more noticeable
- [ ] Make toilets flushable
- [ ] Add a hint somewhere that all of the sequences are the same on all of the cards
- [ ] Add a paper slip showing all of the card sequence roots

Unsure:
- [ ] People tend to double click on things, which cancels the camera movement. Maybe I can detect double clicks and handle them?
- [ ] Add a map button
- [ ] [#15](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/15) Add OCR for handwritten notes
- [ ] [#16](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/16) Item highlight assist mode
- [ ] [#44](https://gitea.arcturuscollective.com/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/44) Controller support
- [ ] I could break the cassette tapes sometimes, which means you need to manually re-wind the tape back into the cassette.
- [ ] Add gamma control so that players can adjust brightness
- [ ] Sometimes the anchor point is wrong when you select an item, not sure how to reproduce.
- [ ] Maybe we should color coordinate drives and computers? I didn't like it when I did this before, but maybe I could approach the problem in a different way... Also, the colors would mostly be useful for people who don't read but I'm designing a game that depends a lot on reading.
- [ ] Pivot camera to look at hint bubble?
- [ ] Auto-select first empty slot when clicking on drive bays
- [ ] Add previews to audio settings
- [ ] Show button on screen when in stair or door region
