---
created: 2025-06-06T23:02:37Z
---

Day of the Devs notes:
- **Snap & Grab** Game aobut taking photos and planning heists.
- **Big Walk** Walking simulator game with puzzles and many ways of communicating
- **Sword of the Sea** Atmospheric adventure game where you surf on a sword. This was also at State of Play.
- **Escape Academy: Back 2 School** Escape room game, sequel to Escape Academy. Open world, roleplaying.
- **Mixtape** They were just in the main show!
- **Blighted** Psychedelic metroidvania with co-op. This was also in the main show.
- **Dosa Divas: One Last Meal** Sci-fi indian culture rpg game about making food for people and fighting a fast food empire.
- **Possessors** 2d sidescroller fighting adventure game
- **Moonlighter 2: The Endless Vault** 3d dungeon/shopkeeping roguelike game
- **Please Watch the Artwork** Psychological spot the difference game
- **Marvel Cosmic Invasion** Pixel side-scroller beat-em up. They showed a trailer for this in the main show, i think.
- **Neverway** Horror farming life sim
- **Relooted** World premiere. Side-scrolling heist game. Tackles the problem of returning african artifacts in western collections. The items featured in the game are artifacts that are still in western museums.
- **Ratatan** Little guys rhythm fighting game.
- **Thick as Thieves** Immersive stealth heist game where you try to outwit not only the AI but also other players
- **Pocket Boss** Short game about satisfying your boss through playing with charts
- **Consume me** Game about food, exercising, and growing up.
- **OFF** Japanese-inspired RPG that inspired Oneshot and Undertale. It's been remade, new soundtrack, new bosses, and revamped combat.
- **Tire Boy** Playful action adventure game about controlling a tire.
- **Toem 2** Photography adventure game where you try to take a picture of a phenomenon called Toem.
- **Unbeatable** Rhythm game. They played some music, _Worn out Tapes_, from their new soundtrack.

Most interested in *Big Walk*, *Please Watch the Artwork*, and *Relooted*.

Devolver Digital did a long showcase for a game called _Ball Pit_ after Day of the Devs, which seems like an iteration of the breakout genre.

Apparently, Day of the Devs is a non-profit event. I also liked Day of the Devs much more than the main show, as it had a much wider variety of games and the games on showcase were generally much more interesting. I also liked the genuine awkwardness and earnestness from the developer commentary.
