---
created: 2025-06-22T00:31:43Z
---

At OffKai, Panel 3
Designing a Vtuber: A Live Drawing Panel
https://www.offkaiexpo.com/event/designing-a-vtuber-a-live-drawing-panel/

- Presented by:
	- Henemimi, self-taught, freelance for 7 years, vtubing for 4
- Advice is from Hanemimi's POV, there are many ways to design a character! Make what you want to make!
- Simple designs are strong too. It's definitely easier for the artist too.
- Feel free to be self-indulgent. You don't need to adhere to corpo marketing ideas! Be who you want to be!
- You will spend the most time looking at your character.
- Try to pick shapes that accentuate your character's silhouette
- Things to consider:
	- Personality
	- Body type
	- 90% chance an animal
	- Setting + Aesthetic
	- Easily recognizable
	- Silhouette
- You want the personality of your character to be easily seen.
- Likes to use three colors as accents
- Designs that are too busy are harder to remember or recognize
- Think about how they seem at a quick glance
- Uses Clip Studio Paint EX. Uses a lot of brushes from the asset store.
- Do you do focus on clothing or body type when deciding the silhouette?
	- Body type. You should be able to make a silhouette that is recognizable with different outfits.
- How do you texture rough textures like jeans or tweed without making it look too busy?
	- You can elicit the idea of something without making it look busy. Overall design tends to be more minimal if the texture is busier.
- Use complimentary colors like blue and orange, red and green, yellow and purple.
- How do you avoid drawing the same kinds of outfits?
	- Look at fashion magazines and blogs. Look for people who really like fashion. Look at styles you don't normally look at.
- How do you think about silhouettes when you draw?
	- I think about what shapes I like and what they can elicit, like the overall shape of a chicken sitting down on its eggs is a triangle.
