---
created: 2025-04-29T19:29:41Z
---

Working on _no signal_ offline:
- Copied TODOs from [20250428072532](20250428072532.md)
- Ran into an awkward OOP situation, where I wanted to have only one download window and change how its drawn based on which tab is currently selected. However, because part of the behavior of the window is to play an animation which triggers some other state change upon the animation finishing, I can't actually do this easily. This is because the animation player has its own state and a signal is waiting to fire when the animation is finished. If I change tabs, I don't want to cancel the animation because it represents the data being downloaded. So, the easiest solution is to just duplicate the window for every chat log, instead of writing something to save and load the animation state and trigger the signal when the animation isn't playing.
- Found a lot of bugs while playtesting the game.

Tanuki:
- [ ] Make Naoko's charm model
- [ ] Switch velcro mats to something more "traditional"?
- [ ] Bobby-fy `meeting-a plan`
- [ ] Make models to fill drawers in medical room
- [ ] Make models to fill drawers in workshop

TODO:
- [x] Check to make sure drive bay keys are working correctly
- [ ] Sometimes, clicking on a puzzle piece once moves it twice. Not sure how to reproduce this consistently
- [x] Can't decrypt more than one drive without reloading the save
- [x] Can't scroll through chat log with mouse
- [ ] Add poem song puzzle to music room
- [ ] Add breathing sounds in part 3
- [ ] Dynamically change resolution of holodeck cinematic
- [ ] Add cables in real EVA
- [ ] In tutorial, clicking on drive and then scrolling without first setting a pivot sets the pivot incorrectly on scroll
- [ ] Scrolling right after changing pivot sets pivot incorrectly
- [ ] Don't move pivot when clicking on doors
- [ ] Don't play animation when clicking on opened doors
- [ ] 1g door starts closed for some reason
- [ ] storage ring cable in the wrong place
- [ ] Lighting doesn't load properly sometimes again (inconsistent)
