---
created: 2025-03-07T18:03:26Z
---

_no signal_ stream 181:
- Copied TODOs from [20250307052217](20250307052217.md)
- Just trying to focus on getting controller support working before the ATX GameMakers showcase at Valhalla this weekend on Sunday and Monday. However, I'm running out of time and if I can't finish support, I will make a build anyway with what's currently available.
- Found out that `Control`s lose focus when `Control`s in other `Viewport`s grab focus. [20250307184823](20250307184823.md)

Tanuki:
- [ ] Add audio-locked box
- [ ] Articulate piano keys
- [ ] Decorate music room
- [ ] Separate toilet lever so it can be animated in Godot
- [ ] Fix Rubix cube UVs
- [ ] Make Naoko's charm model
- [ ] Switch velcro mats to something more "traditional"?
- [ ] Bobby-fy `meeting-a plan`
- [ ] Make models to fill drawers in medical room
- [ ] Make models to fill drawers in workshop
- [ ] Make ovens in kitchen open-able
- [ ] Starfish model
- [ ] Separate `sm_door_bathroom` door from frame so it can be animated in Godot

TODO:
- [x] Add interaction with dialog reader for controller
- [x] Add interaction with item pickup popup
- [x] Add interaction with card writer buttons for controller
- [x] Add interaction with fuse box for controller
- [x] Add interaction with card reader buttons for controller
- [x] Add interaction with safe for controller
- [x] Add interaction with inventory
- [ ] Add joystick motion support for puzzle
- [ ] Activate hint system with controller?
- [ ] No noise for small fuse box?
- [x] Bounds are being enforced incorrectly in comms? maybe using local instead of global
- [x] Fix mount button not focused when auto selecting next
- [x] Change puzzle arrow selection to prefer an arrow in the direction of input, and if there isn't one then prioritize closest arrow
- [ ] Remember to use crosshair when last input was joystick
	- [ ] Update input tutorial to show controller or mouse inputs
	- [ ] Update puzzle hint to show controller inputs
- [ ] Ignore controller input when game isn't focused? See [godotengine/godot#16832](https://github.com/godotengine/godot/issues/16832#issuecomment-1538730068),[godotengine/godot#82965](https://github.com/godotengine/godot/pull/82965), and [workaround in the official docs](https://docs.godotengine.org/en/stable/tutorials/inputs/controllers_gamepads_joysticks.html#window-focus)

Part Two:
- [ ] Make toilets flushable
- [ ] Implement Rubix cube
- [ ] Add poem song puzzle to music room
- [ ] Make doors in bathroom open
- [ ] Add starfish model to 2g (see `radio-a nevaeh`)
- [ ] Music room is missing drive bay and dialog screen
- [ ] Add compliance decal to office
- [ ] Add decal that describes the Oberth effect
- [ ] Add decoy drive bays to gravity backup
- [ ] Add sliding puzzles to gravity backup
- [ ] Add cork board with clues in meeting room

Part Three:
- [ ] Add breathing sounds
- [ ] Dynamically change resolution of cinematic
- [ ] Add cables in EVA
