---
created: 2025-06-06T21:06:36Z
---

Watching the main Summer Game Fest show:
- **Mortal Shell II** They had fun syncing the shots up with the music, but it doesn't appear to be a rhythm game
- **Death Star Sabotage** Another Star Wars game
- **Death Stranding 2** I still have the first game in my to-play backlog. The trailer showed a cinematic moment between two characters; no gameplay.
- **Chronicles Medieval** Midieval-themed action game. Seems inspired by or similar to  Warband?
- **Sonic Racing CrossWorlds** Lots of character crossovers from a bunch of different IPs, including Minecraft. They also threw shade on Nintendo's Mario Kart for not having online matchmaking, which their game has.
- **CodeVein II** Fantasy anime action game
- **End of Abyss** Sci-fi twin stick shooter, reminds me of _Inside_, actually. I would probably enjoy this.
- **Mouse PI** Rubber hose animation style era game, but in first person.
- **Game of Thrones: War for Westeros**
- **Atomic Heart II** retrofuturistic sci fi shooter by Mundfish, spiritual successor to the first game, with more of a focus on rpg elements
- **The Cube** Another sci fi shooter game by Mundfish. It's an MMO FPS shooter! I wonder if they can pull that off, many MMO FPS's I know of have failed pretty quickly.
- Side-scrolling pixel art beat-em up fighting game
- **Onimusha: Way of the Sword** Swordfighting action game
- **Felt That Boxing** Muppet-style art about fighting, i think boxing?
- **Killer In** Murder Mystery social deduction game, with guns and shops and leveling up.
- **Arc Raiders** Live service extraction shooter game
- **Dune Awakening** An MMO set in the Dune universe.
- **Chrono Odyssey** Fantasy fighting adventure game about going to the past?
- **Wuthering Waves** Anime fighting game
- **Mio: Memories in Orbit** Metroidvania platforming game
- **Out of Words** Handcrafted stop motion platforming game
- Mafia game
- **Voyagers** Co-op Lego game with building mechanics, it looks great. It's got a spaceship rocket too??? I love that.
- **Nicktoons & the Dice of Destiny** Spongebob fighting game
- **Lies of P: Overture** DLC for Lies of P, souls-like
- **Fractured Blooms** Anime horror game, with photorealistic art, supposedly based on a true story
- **Blade & Soul** Anime fighting game
- **Crystal of Atlan** crossover with one-punch man?
- **The Seven Deadly Sins Origin** Anime RPG
- Ad for State of Unreal in Orlando
- Jurassic World theme park game
- **Mina the Hollower** 2d pixel art retro game
- **Deadpool VR** VR Deadpool game, It had a late-stage capitalism joke in it, but it's also literally a game from Meta.
- **Dying Light: The Beast** FPS Zombie game
- **Mixtape** RPG coming of age game, low-fps animations
- **Towa and the Guardians of the Secret Tree** Anime fantasy isometric fighting game
- **Acts of Blood** Revenge martial arts fighting game. Has a scene inspired by famous hallway scene from _Old Boy_ in it. Geoff claimed that it's a solo dev game.
- **Scott Pilgrim EX** Scott Pilgrim side-scrolling brawling game, takes place in Toronto
- **Resident Evil: Village** Zombie shooting game. They also advertised a Capcom sale
- **The First Descendant: Breakthrough** Sci-fi game with fan service jiggle physics
- **Scum** Parodied 2001: A Space Odyssey at the beginning
- **MindsEye** Third person shooting game
- IOI games then showed off a Hitman and James Bond IP crossover and had Mads on stage
- **Lego Party** This is just MarioParty, but with Lego
- **WildGate** FPS sci-fi game?
- **Blighted** Isometric fighting game. Kind of looks like Hades.
- **Ill** Another Mundfish game? They're getting a lot of screentime. Shooter horror game
- **MechaBreak** sci-fi mecha game, no gameplay footage unfortunately
- **Infinitesimals** sci-fi shooting game where you play as a small humanoid
- **Street Fighter 6** They filmed an interesting skit for this one
- **Last Flag** 3D Capture the Flag game, has a lot of the same vibes as TF2
- **Wuchang Fallen Fighters** Swordfighting game by 505 Games. Looks like a Souls-like.
- Wu Tang Clan game
- Guild War 2 Update, player housing was added too
- **Mongil Star Dive**
- **Into the Unwell** Another rubberhose animation style game. I like the style in this one a lot more than the other rubberhose animation style game.
- **Splitgate 2** This guy is wearing a black hat that says "Make FPS Great Again".
- **Stranger than Heaven** Noir detective game that takes place in 1943 Tokyo. I really liked the dialog they showed, I want to check this out.
- **Resident Evil 9: Requiem** Will be playable in August at GamesCon

I'm most interested in *Voyagers*, *Felt That Boxing*, *Out of Words*, and *Stranger than Heaven*.

For the most part, I didn't really find the main show that interesting. It seems like Summer Game Fest was mostly for the mainstream gaming audience and as such had an over-representation of games where you shoot guns and enact violence in photorealistic settings.
