---
created: 2025-06-23T06:16:47Z
---

Now that OffKai has ended, I want to spend a bit of time reflecting on some of the in-person conversations I had where I was not able to take notes before I forget.

One conversation I had was about making short form content. They were a VTuber streamer familiar with making short-form content for platforms like Tiktok and Instagram, so I asked them a few questions:

- How long are your shorts and how long do you normally spend making them?
	- Usually, I script like 4 sentences the day before. If you think about it, it will take you about 15-30 seconds to say about that much stuff, which is the entire video. You can't say that much. It takes me about 2-3 hours total to script, record takes, and edit the video. I often have trouble making sure the model is expressive enough, so I have to take multiple takes. I'm working on figuring out how to take less, higher quality takes.
- What kind of content do you feel works well in shorts?
	- You could talk about anything, as long as it's clear and simple. You could talk about your own life experiences, do a q&a, talk about your opinions, or even just what you'd like to see.
- I've heard that you need to post consistently, multiple times a day for it to work. How true do you find that to be?
	- Posting on Instagram once a day, every weekday, seems to work well for me. My shorts do get some traction and attention.
- I've tried a few times at making short-form content before, but it's always taken me a long time because I've always tried to edit my streams to make the short-form videos. It can be really time-consuming to find the right moments to clip and sequence into a coherent story. It's interesting that you mentioned scripting the shorts earlier, because I'm just now realizing that I could have always done that instead. I could recount the development experience instead of trying to show moments of it from the stream. What do you think of that?
	- Yeah! I think that would work well (another friend listening in on the conversation also mentioned here that I could also practice remembering to add stream markers to find notable moments more easily, or delegate that task to chat).

Later that night, I discussed making short-form content with another friend, and they reminded me that Twitch actually gives you the ability to grant users the permission to export clips that they make on Twitch directly to YouTube.
