---
created: 2025-07-30T17:06:58-07:00
---

Just watching _no signal_ gameplay today
- Copied TODOs from [20250728140541](20250728140541.md) and [20250728190332](20250728190332.md)
- Noticed a few more bugs
- Three friends streamed the game today! Wow!

TODO:
- [ ] Fix incorrect coloring on piano when hovered over key.
- [ ] meeting-a bobby dialog is a transcript but "breath" is the wrong word.
- [ ] The camera rubberbanding issue is back, when trying to move after setting the anchor on something. maybe I can replicate it again?
- [ ] Application icon is broken on windows. Maybe I need a native `.ico` file?
- [ ] Remove wall script and backfacing walls from inset bed model in bedrooms
- [ ] Sell the sheet music for poem?
- [ ] ~~Post on t/suki~~ Did this yesterday
- [ ] Nook mat in activity room isn't lit underneath
- [ ] The music dialog says "All Diamonds Come From Africa" but it should be "Go Buy Diamonds From Africa"
- [ ] Letter in wordmark spins too quickly on some machines
- [ ] Password prompts are is missing a sound for when they reject a player's input
- [ ] Office rugs are missing an underside

Probably won't fix:
- [ ] For some reason, the corners of the black hole skybox are darker.
- [ ] Old wordmark still shows up in the credits of the game.
- [ ] [#62](https://git.tsuki.games/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/62) Game freeze when accessing the EVA computer. Haven't been able to replicate this.

Unconfirmed:
- [ ] A player reported a lighting issue in the center, where it loads in completely dark while playing a game. ~~Reloading the game fixes the issue.~~ This only happened on the user's computer once after the initial install.
