---
created: 2025-06-04T21:03:44Z
---

I'm watching the Sony State of Play 2025. This is the first time I'm actually sitting down to watch a showcase of upcoming games, so this is all new to me.

- Trailers:
	- *Lumines Arise*: Puzzle game by the developers of Tetris effect.
	- *Pragmata*, looks like a sci-fi action game.
	- *Romeo is a Dead Man*: animation and humor at the beginning reminded me a lot of Jerma's Rat Movie. The in-game aesthetic wasn't the same though, which was disappointing.
	- Silent Hill f*: Horror game with creepy human-doll things? seems pretty cool.
	- *Bloodstained: The Scarlett Encampment*: Some kind of side-scrolling beat-em-up action game?
	- *Digimon Story Time Stranger*: Oh hey, a Digimon game. I don't think I've seen a Digimon game in a while.
	- *Final Fantasy Tactics: The Ivalice Chronicles*: Pretty hand-drawn art style at the beginning, but apparently it's just old-scool isometric sprites; it's an enhanced remake of the original game.
	- *Baby Steps*: Literal walking simulator ~~I remember the developer of this being weird about their game on Twitter.~~ Can't find it. I think I misremembered.
	- Past this point, the trailers went by faster and focused more on showing off mechanics quickly.
	- *Hirogami*: Action game inspired by origami
	- *Everybody's Golf Hot Shots*: Another golfing game
	- *Nonja Gaiden: Ragebound*: 2d pixel art side scroller
	- *Cairn*: Survival climbing game. This is the only game I'm interested in. I hope it involves Bivuoacs.
	- The trailers went back to being longer and returned to spending more time on story/vibes
	- *Mortal Kombat: Legacy Kollection*: Love to see game preservation happening here.
	- Official Playstation wireless fight stick ad
	- *Metal Gear Solid: Snake Eater* I still need to play one of these games...
	- *Nioh 3* I don't know anything about this series. Ninja action game?
	- *Thief VR: Legacy of Shadow* The disjointed hands are interesting, And there
	- *Tides of Tomorrow* I really like the visual style of this. I also like how the story seemingly takes place in the great garbage patch.
	- News about a free update for *Astroboy*
	- *Sea Remnants*: Pirate game? Art style reminds me of Borderlands, but not gritty.
	- *Sword of the Sea*: Another game that looks a lot like Journey, from the people who made Journey!!! I'm very excited about this. They also made *Abzu*, which I didn't like at all actually but I would still play it. I guess I'm still trying to catch the high I got from *Journey*
	- Past this point they just mentioned a bunch of games really quickly, not enough time to write notes. Most of them were older games being added to their "classics" collection
	- Back to longer trailers again
	- *First Light*: James Bond movie. The facial animations are a bit stiff, but I like the style of it feeling like an american movie. i would actually try it i think. i'm interested to see how well the gameplay meshes with the story and cinematics.
	- *Ghost of Yotei* - Complete vibes, no gameplay footage
	- *Marvel Tokon: Fighting Souls* Marvel fighting game? Come to think of it, how come I've never heard of a superhero fighting game? They did a pretty long commentary after the trailer talking about the game.
	- Ended with a sizzle reel including footage from all the games.
- Some of the trailers were followed by developers commenting on or selling their game.
- these kinds of trailers are VERY different from the kinds of good trailers you'd see on Steam store pages, they have a lot more fun with showing off cinematics and storytelling
