---
created: 2025-05-30T20:07:01Z
---

I was reading _[A Mathematician's Lament](https://worrydream.com/refs/Lockhart_2002_-_A_Mathematician's_Lament.pdf)_ by Paul Lockhart again, because I had linked it to someone to explain why I think it's untrue that math is inherently unfun.

The essay is about the failings of the education system in teaching math and about how math is actually an art form. While reading it, I couldn't help but see it through the lens of computer science and AI-generated code. Just as Lockhart points out:

> It would be bad enough if the culture were merely ignorant of mathematics, but what is far
worse is that people actually think they do know what math is about— and are apparently under
the gross misconception that mathematics is somehow useful to society! This is already a huge
difference between mathematics and the other arts. Mathematics is viewed by the culture as
some sort of tool for science and technology. Everyone knows that poetry and music are for pure
enjoyment and for uplifting and ennobling the human spirit (hence their virtual elimination from
the public school curriculum) but no, math is important.

In a similar manner, I feel like the way AI-generated code is used and marketed have a perspective which view code as a means to an end. I feel like there is a lot to enjoy when you write really nice code, which Lockhart also says about math:

> This is what a piece of mathematics looks and feels like. That little narrative is an example
of the mathematician’s art: asking simple and elegant questions about our imaginary creations,
and crafting satisfying and beautiful explanations. There is really nothing else quite like this
realm of pure idea; it’s fascinating, it’s fun, and it’s free!
