---
created: 2025-07-29T12:36:46-07:00
---

itch.io made [a statement about the UK Online Safety Act (OSA)](https://itch.io/t/5133739/our-update-on-the-uk-online-safety-act) at 2025-07-27 22:08:03 UTC. It's been a few days since it was posted, and it currently is marked as having been edited 5 times.

In it, they say that adult content will not be available at all to UK visitors until they find a solution that complies with the act:

> At this time, we are not adding any invasive age verification systems to itch.io. Instead, we are exploring partnerships with third-party “digital ID” providers that would allow us to comply with the law while keeping the experience as smooth as possible for everyone. **Until we find and implement a solution for age verification we are comfortable with, affected pages will not be available for visitors from the UK.**
>
> \[...\]
>
> We use the tags you’ve added to your project page automatically apply a restriction in the UK. **This is based on a combination of the “Has sensitive content” setting and the use of specific tags: “porn,” “adult,” “hentai,” “erotic,” and “sex”.** Please note that a staff member may apply an override if we find your page is covered by the OSA but your tags do not reflect this. We may refine this list of tags as we manually review pages to ensure we can get an accurate classification of pages.

In this statement, they also express their disagreement with the OSA and encouraged readers to express their concerns by reaching out to advocacy groups, local representatives, and by signing a petition.

Just like the deindexing situation started by Collective Shout campaign, they said this currently does not affect the ability to download content already in a user's library. As far as I can tell, this is unrelated to Collective Shout.
