---
created: 2025-06-22T19:27:32Z
---

At Offkai, Panel 1
Beyond the Screen: A VTuber’s Guide to Work-Life Balance
https://www.offkaiexpo.com/event/beyond-the-screen-a-vtubers-guide-to-work-life-balance/

- Presented by:
	- Fream
- (paraphrasing)
- Open Q&A discussion about having a full time job and also a VTuber
- How do you handle making schedules, starting with your objectives and goals?
	- Make your goals in manageable chunks. You can have big aspirations, but you need to break it down into smaller manageable chunks. Understand that you will make mistakes
- Hiw would you balance doing stuff and doing content creation with lersonal time to recover from work?
	- That is one of the biggest problems, since I have a full time job. I make content creation feel like a fun hobby instead of like more work. They spend some dedicated time with their partner at a specific time consistently.
- There are a lot of people who have a lot of free time, and that's how they get into it? As someone without a lot of free time, how do I avoid burning bridges with my limited time?
	- Make clear boundaries. Made a friend guide for new friends, to explain things off the bat what boundaries and expectations are. If they cannot respect that you are busy, then don't be friends.
- (couldn't hear)
	- I never look at view count. Turn it off, even during raids. If you are doing this for fun, don't look at the views and focus on being authentically yourself and having fun. View count doesn't matter.
- With varying energy levels, is it better to make a schedule and just work through it, or do you just stream whenever?
	- Being consistent makes it feel like another job. If I have a rough day, having a scheduled stream can feel bad. I prefer to stream when I feel like it. If you don't feel like entertaining others, don't do it because it will come out on stream.
- On my off days, I have trouble picking which chunk to tackle first.
	- No matter what, there's going to be something on the list of tasks that you are excited about, and that momentum can carry you through the list.
- Every once in a while, you can get into a slump, a lack of motivation. How do you climb out of those slumps?
	- My big thing is to surround muself eith things I love because that motivates me. Normalize doing something fun for yourself, because that's how you recharge. do that until you recharge. Otherwise, you'll beat yourself up and end up in a negative loop. Prioritize yourself and your mental health.
- Content production is a lot of work. How do you deal with the complication of wrangling a bunch of people and avoid getting frustrated?
	- It's okay to not be perfect. Channel Shia Lebouf's "just do it". Then you can at least say you did it. Fucking around and finding out is how you will grow. The more you do it, the better you will get in the long run.
- Sometimes I lose motivation when running D&D, but I have to get it done to avoid cancelling on people. How do you get it done?
	- Don't force it, because people will see that. But if you can, just do it. Ride the wave. fuck it, we ball
- I'm coming back from a long haitus, and I want to get back into the rhythm i had when I didn't have a job. How do I avoid feeling like I am not doing as much as I used to?
	- Break your work down, schedule things, make it fun. Gamify your life. Feel free to do as much as you want, but break what you want to do down into smaller steps.
- When I make time to work on a larger project, I look back on my last few weeks and I feel drained. Then I feel like I haven't made enough progress and I feel unsatisfied. How do I find a middle ground?
	- I don't think there is a middle ground. I am in that boat right now. We all have our aspirations and ambitions. It's always going to be difficult, and it will be hard to prioritize yourself. Make sure you take care of yourself.
- As someone who needs scheduling, how do you avoid getting bored of your schedule and stagnating?
	- Yeah, a schedule is exhausting. But you need to schedule time for yourself too. Have something to look forward to. Like, for example, every Sunday I have to go on a date with my partner, and just exist as a person for five hours. Consider shaking up the schedule by adding things you haven't done before.

Left the talk 30m early, because I didn't like the advice.
