---
created: 2025-05-15T03:34:34Z
---

UFO 50 is a collection of 50 games for a fictional games company named UFO Soft. I'm told it's a period piece of oldschool NES-era games, though I'm not exactly what a period piece is exactly. Just finished playing 25 of the 50 games in UFO 50! As expected, I didn't really like most of them but I did appreciate certain elements of certain games.

While streaming, I also ranked the games with a [UFO 50 template](https://tiermaker.com/create/ufo-50-games-17204939) on tiermaker.com:

| Rank | Games |
|------|-------|
| S | - |
| A | Avianos (#12), Seaside Drive (#48), The Big Bell Race (#19), Velgress (#7) |
| B | Pingolf (#31), Night Manor (#42), Mini & Max (#45), Camouflage (#16), Attactics (#9), Block Koala (#15), Valbrace (#37) |
| C | Magic Garden (#5), Cyber Owls (#50), Rail Heist (#28), Star Waspir (#39), Party House (#25) |
| D | Mortol (#6), Warptank (#20), Bushido Ball (#14), Mooncat (#13) |
| F | Mortol II (#32), Campanella 3 (#49), Porgy (#22), Barbuta (#1), Onion Delivery (#23) |

Some of the games I disliked the most also had controls that I found frustrating to use. For example, *Onion Delivery* had wildly swingy and bouncy driving, *Warptank* used absolute movement controls instead of relative controls which I found extremely confusing, and *Mooncat* had bizarre movement controls.

In general, I found many of the games to be outside of my difficulty tolerances, which prevented me from finding enjoyment in the game. For example, *Porgy* involved a lot of backtracking through dangerous environments which I often died in without making progress (which reminded me of *Hollow Knight*), *Barbuta* had you walk around really slowly without really giving many clues as to how to progress, and games like *Cyber Owls*, *Star Waspir*, and *Mortol* were simply too difficult for me. Generally, platformers were quite difficult for me to play.

The games I liked tended to be non-platforming games:
- *Avianos* reminds me of engine-building board games that I enjoy playing. However, it feels like most of the strategy is chalked up to rushing your opponent as quickly as possible.
- *Seaside Drive* reminds of *LUFTRAUSER* which, while difficult, I find quite entertaining because it's just fun to blow shit up.
- *The Big Bell Race* has physics which makes finding the optimal racing line interesting.
- *Velgress* is really hard, but it reminds me of *Downwell* in its snappy and rewarding gameplay.

Some notable things in other games include:
- *Night Manor*: I thought the shaking of the cursor when the antagonistic monster was on screen, was a great way to communicate the character's terror to the player.
- *Magic Garden*: I really liked the cute art in this one.
