---
created: 2025-07-24T14:14:09-07:00
---

Last night, itch.io suddently mass deindexed all adult games from browse and search without any notice. They posted an [official announcement](https://itch.io/updates/update-on-nsfw-content) a few hours after this mass deindexing occurred at 2025-07-24 06:07:43 UTC.

They claimed this happened because of Collective Shout:

> Recently, we came under scrutiny from our payment processors regarding the nature of some content hosted on itch.io. Due to a game titled _No Mercy_, which was temporarily available on itch.io before being banned back in April, the organization [Collective Shout](https://www.collectiveshout.org/open-letter-to-payment-processors) launched a campaign against Steam and itch.io, directing concerns to our payment processors about the nature of certain content found on both platforms.

They said that providing notice to creators was not realistic:

> This is a time critical moment for itch.io. The situation developed rapidly, and we had to act urgently to protect the platform’s core payment infrastructure. Unfortunately, this meant it was not realistic to provide creators with advance notice before making this change. We know this is not ideal, and we apologize for the abruptness of this change.

At the time of the announcement, it appeared that itch.io was unable to confirm what kinds of content were allowed or not, or when they'd be able to do so:

> We are currently conducting a comprehensive audit of content to ensure we can meet the requirements of our payment processors.
>
> \[...\]
>
> We ask for your patience and understanding as we navigate this challenging period. I’m sorry we can not share more at this time as we are still getting a full understanding of the situation ourselves. We will post a follow up on our blog if the situation changes.
