---
created: 2025-04-26T04:06:22Z
---

Working on _no signal_ offline:
- Copied TODOs from [20250419212851](20250419212851.md)
- I had worked previously on the Rubix cube implementation at the MADE coworking and got the rotations working, but I hadn't quite finished it. So, I want to finish that up today. However, I've decided to drop the planned ability to let the player solve the Rubix cube. It's non-essential to the game loop, it would take quite a lot of effort to implement, and I don't really have the time and energy to implement that anymore given my current situation.
- I've borrowed a tablet and controller from a friend, so I should focus on those tasks so I can return the hardware sooner rather than later.

Tanuki:
- [ ] Make Naoko's charm model
- [ ] Switch velcro mats to something more "traditional"?
- [ ] Bobby-fy `meeting-a plan`
- [ ] Make models to fill drawers in medical room
- [ ] Make models to fill drawers in workshop

TODO:
- [ ] Check to make sure drive bay keys are working correctly

Controller:
- [ ] Ignore rig input when radial menu is open
- [ ] Add controller support for map
- [ ] Open OSD keyboard when using joystick?
- [ ] Controller support for inventory
- [ ] Update input tutorial to show controller or mouse inputs
- [ ] Update puzzle hint to show controller inputs

Part Two:
- [x] Implement Rubix cube
- [ ] Add poem song puzzle to music room
- [x] Add compliance decal to office
- [x] Add decal that describes the Oberth effect
- [ ] Add decoy drive bays to gravity backup
- [ ] Add sliding puzzles to gravity backup
- [ ] ~~Add cork board with clues in meeting room~~ Not sure what clues I might have had in mind when I wrote this, but I certainly can't think of any right now.
- [x] Add general relativity math decals to 1g
- [x] ~~Add general relativity math decals to meeting room~~ Add whiteboards to meeting room
- [ ] ~~Add general relativity math decals to energy lab~~ There's already enough stuff in this room
- [x] Add general relativity math decals to radio lab

Part Three:
- [ ] Add breathing sounds
- [ ] Dynamically change resolution of cinematic
- [ ] Add cables in EVA
