---
created: 2025-05-05T15:45:42Z
---

GodotCon Boston 2025 Anime Workshop

- Assets for the workshop are at https://github.com/codernunk/godotcon-anime-style-2025
- Arc System Works pioneered the anime 3D style with Guilty Gear Xrd
- Topology is more intentional and exaggerated on faces, to get the most out of animation and shadows
- More reliance on vertex painting and secondary texture maps to control shading instead of normal maps and bump maps
- Texture atlas technique
	- Since the art style relies on little detail, we can simplify texturing with atlas textures
	- A texture atlas is just a very small texture split into zones with flat colors
	- Place UVs in the parts of the texture with the colors you want
	- There is black padding between the colors in the example, because the paint bucket tool can bleed into other sections. The speaker feels that having a border helps avoid this issue.
- Using a Texture atlas
	- Switch to the Shading tab
		- Create a new material for the model
		- In the shader for the material, remove the Principled BSDF node by using the `x` or `delete` keys
			- Principled BSDF node is used for realistic rendering
		- `shift+a`, then search for Image Texture and add that
		- Connect `Color` to `Surface` on the Material Output. The model should be black now.
	- Switch to UV Editing
		- Browse image to be linked in the left panel.
		- Change Viewport Shading to Solid, then change the Color to Texture in the right panel.
		- Might have to use scroll wheel on the bar to see the Viewport Shading option.
		- Hover over hands and face, and press `l` on each to select all of the linked vertexes.
		- Press `u` in the right panel, pick any of the three uv unwrap options.
		- Press `s` in the left panel to scale the UVs down until they fit in one of the color boxes.
		- Press `g` in the left panel to move the UVs into the desire color box.
		- Press `3` to switching to face selection mode, pressing `l` in this mode lets you select all of the faces that are linked without crossing seams
		- You can mark seams with `u` when you have a loop selected.
- Shadows
	- Switch to the Shading tab
		- We're going to make the toon shader now.
		- Specifically, an important part of the shader is the color ramp node with Constant interpolation. We use this to make hard shadows.
		- Add a Diffuse BSDF to get some basic lighting information
		- Add a Shader to RGB node
		- Connect the BSDF to `Shader` on the Shader
		- Connect `Color` on the Shader to RGB to `Fac` on the Color Ramp
		- Add a Mix node
		- Connect `Color` on the Color Ramp to `Factor` on the Mix
		- Change `A` on the Mix to Black (or any other color you want to use for shadows)
		- Connect `Color` on the Texture node to `B` on the Mix
		- Connect `Result` on the Mix to `Surface` on the Material Output
		- We can color the shadows by using HSV adjustment
			- Add a Hue/Saturation/Value node
			- Set it to 0.5 Hue, 2 Saturation, and .8 Value
			- Connect `Color` on the Texture node to `Color` on the Hue/Saturation/Value
			- Connect `Color` on the Hue/Saturation/Value to `A` on the Mix
		- There are a lot of ways to color shadows; we could also use a dedicated shadow texture for example.
- Outlines
	- Could use Inverted Hull for outlines. It's not perfect; other options include stencil shaders.
	- Switch to the Layout tab
		- Add a new material, change it to the emission texture, set the color to black, enable backface culling camera
		- Add the Solidify modifier in Blender, `0.003` Thickness, `1.0` Offset
		- Flip normals, change thickness, set the material offset to `1`
		- The outlines on the face look bad, but by using weight painting to control the thickness of the Solidifier modifier.
		- Create a new vertex group and change the vertex group of the Solidifier modifier
		- Now you can change the weights on the model
- Editing face normals
	- Some shadows are on the face, but it doesn't look good.
	- Add a sphere, set to smooth shading
	- Add a modifier to data transfer, so we use the normals of the sphere for the face.
- Exporting to Godot
	- We don't want to export the outline, because it breaks compatibility with shape keys if we want to use them.
	- Instead, we need to write the outline shader in Godot to pull the weights from the model data.
	- We can store data in the vertex colors (R for outline weight and G for custom shadow)
