---
created: 2025-05-03T22:11:49Z
---

Working on _no signal_ offline:
- Copied TODOs from [20250430175941](20250430175941.md)
- I need to make sure that the build works correctly on the Steam Deck before I travel to Boston tomorrow for GodotCon.
- Instead of creating a lightweight tag, I think it would be better to make annotated tags. I often want to associate some information with a tag, and up to this point I've been storing that information in releases on gitea. However, I didn't transfer the releases over from gitea and now I don't have any of that information. Instead of just transferring the data over to the releases page again, I think I'd rather have that information directly in an annotated tag.
- While updating the tags, I remembered that I had read an article on how git core developers configure git before, but I never applied the settings I liked. [20250504243105](20250504243105.md)
- I finished updating the tags, but the dates were wrong. I decided I wanted the tags to have the same dates as the respective commits, so I wrote a script to do that. [20250504014335](20250504014335.md)

Tanuki:
- [ ] Make Naoko's charm model
- [ ] Switch velcro mats to something more "traditional"?
- [ ] Bobby-fy `meeting-a plan`
- [ ] Make models to fill drawers in medical room
- [ ] Make models to fill drawers in workshop

TODO:
- [ ] Add poem song puzzle to music room
- [ ] Add breathing sounds in part 3
- [x] Add cables in real EVA
- [ ] Lighting doesn't load properly sometimes again (inconsistent)
- [x] Circuit highlight doesn't go away when leaving puzzle
- [x] Control tutorial should show right stick movement prompt
- [ ] ~~Right trigger input doesn't work for opening radial menu~~ The default gamepad config in Desktop mode doesn't map the right trigger. Editing the Steam controller config fixed the problem
- [x] Deleting last bind drops focus
- [ ] ~~Echo input doesn't work when navigating menus~~ This is also a Steam controller config issue.
- [ ] Don't move camera when changing selection in popup menus using the D-Pad
- [x] Hide mouse on menu when using controller
- [x] Exiting settings menu doesn't focus buttons\
