---
created: 2025-08-04T15:19:53-07:00
---

Last night I watched one stream of *no signal*:
- HypnotiK_Games (2) 2025-08-04T06:56Z

Today, I'm watching streamers play *no signal* (times from SullyGnome):
- ArielAriaVT 2025-08-04T16:54Z
- lunarequest (2) 2025-08-04T17:33Z
- YukieVT 2025-08-04T19:15Z
- deaf_icarus 2025-08-04T21:20Z
- InternetRain (2) 2025-08-04T23:43Z
- OwenAeon (3) 2025-08-05T00:00Z
- Wow! That was 12 hours straight where at least one person was streaming my game.

TODO:
- [ ] Gym music is on the ambience bus, but it should be on the music bus, maybe?
- [ ] Change cursor for interactable when using look control
- [ ] 2c rug is dark
- [ ] Game crashes sometimes when clicking on something off the game's window, like OBS, after idling in the game after 10-15 minutes
- [ ] Gamma doesn't get saved
- [ ] Can't interact while moving, even though mouse pointer changes
- [ ] Billiard balls actually have textures to set the colors
- [ ] Fix clipping on bed

Previous TODOs:
- [20250803161809](20250803161809.md)
	- [ ] Decal on drive in storage
	- [ ] Reduce fps sensitivity
	- [ ] Send email to PC Gamer: https://www.pcgamer.com/about-pc-gamer/
	- [ ] Send email to Aftermath: https://aftermath.site/about-us-contact-us-aftermath
- [20250801235159](20250801235159.md)
	- [ ] Apply to IGF
	- [ ] Apply to Indiecade
- [20250801060211](20250801060211.md)
	- [ ] Colors are not correct on Rubix Cube
	- [ ] Office decals (whiteboard and desk) are visible on back
	- [ ] Medbay door cover has a decal on it (visible when gamma is high)
	- [ ] Incorrect wall clipping in activity room
- [20250731000658](20250731000658.md)
	- [ ] Fix incorrect coloring on piano when hovered over key.
	- [ ] meeting-a bobby dialog is a transcript but "breath" is the wrong word.
	- [ ] The camera rubberbanding issue is back, when trying to move after setting the anchor on something. maybe I can replicate it again?
	- [ ] Application icon is broken on windows. Maybe I need a native `.ico` file?
	- [ ] Remove wall script and backfacing walls from inset bed model in bedrooms
	- [ ] Sell the sheet music for poem?
	- [ ] Nook mat in activity room isn't lit underneath
	- [ ] The music dialog says "All Diamonds Come From Africa" but it should be "Go Buy Diamonds From Africa"
	- [ ] Letter in wordmark spins too quickly on some machines
	- [ ] Password prompts are is missing a sound for when they reject a player's input
	- [ ] Office rugs are missing an underside
	- [ ] For some reason, the corners of the black hole skybox are darker.
	- [ ] Old wordmark still shows up in the credits of the game.
	- [ ] [#62](https://git.tsuki.games/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/62) Game freeze when accessing the EVA computer.
	- [ ] A player reported a lighting issue in the center, where it loads in completely dark while playing a game. ~~Reloading the game fixes the issue.~~ This only happened on the user's computer once after the initial install.
