---
created: 2025-06-20T23:53:14Z
---

At OffKai, Panel 3
Cyber Safety and VTubing
https://www.offkaiexpo.com/event/cyber-safety-and-vtubing/

- Started ~44m late
- Presented remotely by Kamila Bombette
	- she/her
	- professional voice actress
	- script writer
	- audio engineer
- This is a basic course, not a high technical overview
- They do vtubing anonymously for privacy reasons
- Most VTubers use personas for privacy, improve confidence, and safety
- Doxxing can lead to harrassment, stalking, loss of privacy, damage to career or mental health
- You need to secure digital assets and digital accounts
- Compromised accounts can lead to financial loss, deleted content, damage to fan trust or reputation
- 4% of americans have been victims of doxxing attacks (~11m people)
- 50% of doxxing events lead to address being leaked
- things to avoid:
	- Dont post pictures of yourself. If you do, avoid having recognizable landmarks in your photos and dont post them right away. Don't post pictures that have any windows in the shot. People will use the angle of the sunlight and shadows to determine your location.
	- Don't use personal accounts tied to personal info. Create new emails for new identities. Recommends using ProtonMail.
	- Don't mismanage your passwords. Don't reuse passwords. Use a password manager. Use 2FA. Longer is better than complexity.
- How you might be doxxing yourself on accident:
	- Turn off geolocation on your phone. Strip metadata on photos
	- Your IP can be grabbed if you join an online lobby.
- How to prevent doxxing
	- Don't show your face online. If you already stream with your face, don't worry about it.
	- Use Google docs instead of Word doc. Word docs automatically add your email as the author to the metadata.
	- Beware of social engineering attempts. Avoid playing games from friends you don't already know is a game developer; your friend might have been hacked
	- Double check permissions for extensions and plugins. They might compromise your security. Remove out of date plugins or ones that you dont use.
	- Sanitize your streaming setups. Never show OBS logs, real names in folders, file paths, usernames, or notifications.
	- Keep software and drivers up to date.
- Program recommendations:
	- Password Manager: KeepassXC, Bitwarden
	- Browsers, extensions, scrubbers: Brave Browser (don't use DuckDuckGo), UBlock Origin, ClearURLs, ExifCleaner
	- Open Source Intelligence Monitoring and Threat Protection: DeleteMe, Kanary, Optery, Aura, Have I Been Pwned
	- Secure Communication Tools: ProtonMail, Signal
	- VPNs: SurfShark, ProtonVPN, Mullvad
- Q&A
	- Q&A had to be transcribed because of technical issues
	- Why was NordVPN not on the list?
		- They had a leak and they shouldn't have kept logs
	- How do you manage security and safety while at live events where you do not have your usual streaming setup? For pictures and stuff like that.
		- I use a face cover like a full face visor that covers the face to conceal my identity. I used to use a gas mask, but it was so hot and stuffy.
		- Don't depend on asking people to censor your face in photos.
		- Some only attend virtually and never show up in person
	- How do you deal with giving artists and editors raw video and photo to process?
		- I ask the people I work with to sign NDAs.
		- On financial platforms like Paypal, you don't need to provide your real name, just the company name.
	- How should I ensure the security of thumbnails and other vtuber assets on my computer?
		- It's fine to store them on your computer, would recommend storing them on a separate storage device so you can take them out of the computer. Put any information about yourself on the seperate name. Don't put your real name into the computer.
	- (Clarification) I am using the same computer for both personal and vtubing work. Should I put the personal or vtuber stuff on the separate disk?
		- The personal stuff. Use a SSD; they are more reliable than HDDs.
	- A lot of people use OperaGX. How secure do you think it is? Are you worried of personal data leaks?
		- I've heard that it is more of a browser you can customize, it's nice for the general user. I would still recommend using Brave for security.
	- How do you keep yourself and your friends from doxing your real name during calls?
		- I had to train my friends and family beforehand. It's very difficult. I don't play games with my IRL friends on stream, because it is too much of a risk.
	- How did you get to know \_?
		- We were both friends and adult voice actors, since the beginning of both our careers
	- Between Optery and DeleteMe, which do you prefer more?
		- DeleteMe is covers a lot more bases for the general person while Optery is more technical and has more deep dives. DeleteMe is easier to use and understand, but if you are technical Optery is better.
	- Will a copy of these slides will be available?
		- Add me on Discord and I will send them to you.
