---
created: 2025-08-14T09:11:32-07:00
---

This morning, I received this email from Vimeo:

> # Your Pro Annual plan will renew soon
>
> Hi Exodrifter,
>
> We wanted to let you know that on 09/13/25, **the price of your plan will increase to $300.00 billed annually**, (plus applicable taxes). 
>
> Additionally, we’re removing your weekly storage cap, so you will have unlimited access to 4TB of total storage.
>
> You can cancel online in your Billing Settings or by contacting Customer Support. If you choose not to renew, some of your videos may be removed from your account.
>
> Yours in video,
>
> Vimeo

I am pretty unhappy with this, as I had been previously grandfathered into a plan that Vimeo used to offer that had unlimited storage, but with a weekly upload cap of 25gb/month. Now, it seems like I'll eventually run out of space on the $300/year for 4TB of space plan. The next available tier for Vimeo is $720/year for 7TB of space.

Once again, I find myself in a situation where asking for more space means significantly higher costs ($75/TB to $102.85/TB). This is a pattern I've noticed -- I had the same exact problem with backing up the original VODs on Dropbox. Just like with Dropbox, I'm guessing the higher costs are due to the "business" features offered in the next tier that I don't care about at all, which is annoying. All I want to do is host my VODs.

It sounds like it's time to finally consider alternatives. I could consider throwing all of my VODs on YouTube like most other streamers, but I want to give people an ad-free way to see my VODs. I also almost extensively use embeds to show the videos on both my [VOD website](https://vods.exodrifter.space) and my main website, but the YouTube embed is really lacking (the Vimeo embed is really nice!!!). For a self-hosted solution, I might want to consider using PeerTube, but I have no idea how it handles embeds...
