---
created: 2025-06-21T04:26:24Z
---

At Offkai, Panel 3
Taboo Talk: Stigmas in NSFW and ASMR VTubing
https://www.offkaiexpo.com/event/taboo-talk-stigmas-in-nsfw-and-asmr-vtubing/

- (responses are paraphrased)
- Presented by:
	- YanderEgg, @YanderEggVT
	- BabydollStarlit, StarlitVA
	- ZAVVY
- How did we get started?
	- ZAVVY: Started off as family-friendly, Googled if they could say fuck on stream, ended up on Fansly to be more comfortable with just being themselves, wanted to play Orc Massage but it was not allowed on Twitch. Played it on Fansly and then decided to do NSFW content because it would be fun to get off during streams.
	- YanderEgg: Got into ASMR because an indie voice actor told them that they could not do voice acting, so they did so out of spite after getting drunk. They kept doing this, thought that it would be fun if it was scripted, and then got into ASMR after realizing that people were watching it.
	- Starlit: Was broke as shit. Did it to stay financially stable after losing a corporate job. Knew that a partner really liked their voice, so they decided to try it out for two weeks but it worked out really well. A lewdtuber VA competition led to connections and opportunities. It let them explore their sexuality in a safe environment, which they really enjoyed. Looking into more SFW stuff now.
- What are some of the stereotypes we've faced?
	- Starlit: Lewdtubers are a divisive issue on social media, like on Twitter. Lewdtubers work just as hard as "Seiso" safe for work vtubers. Some SFW VTubers are happy to work with lewdtubers. Most foreign vtubing agencies will not work with you if you have done adult content, but this is changing.
	- ZAVVY: The worst instance was when a mutual on Twitter liked each others posts and they lurked in each others chats. They tried to collab with them, but the person responded in a really mean way, then went on Twitter to complain about NSFW creators while still following them. Some people respond very negatively. It can be difficult to find an artist to make a nsfw model.
	- Starlit: Many artists don't do NSFW work at all.
	- YanderEgg: SFW on main, and has realized that a lot consider ASMR to be entirely sexual. A lot of people also think ASMR is quiet, but this is not always true like in Yander's content. There is a niche for whatever sounds nice to you. ASMR is whatever sounds nice to you.
- How do we deal with parasocialness?
	- YandereEgg: Everyone has had their fair share of it. You have to be careful with it. Doesn't deal with them directly because that gives a 1-1 connection to the fan. Makes public PSAs instead, asking people to stop. Thankfully, hasn't had a stalker yet. Cyber security is important!
	- Starlit: Don't use parasocial relationships to your advantage. People equate large donations with affection, and when you do not give them what they expect it can be bad. You might be tempted to give them more, but you should not encourage it or manipulate the viewer's emotions to get more money. Set clear boundaries, state that you are not romantically available, and say that you are just a content creator for entertainment purposes only. Steer the conversation in a different direction when your boundaries are crossed.
	- ZAVVY: Had many problematic users from Twitch. Shared a story about a particularly bad user involving blackmail and intimidation. Ban and block problematic users.
- Examples of what you might come across
	- YanderEgg: There is a wide spectrum of ASMR content. There's something for everyone. Just about any word with ASMR afterwards works. Potato ASMR? It's on youtube.
	- Starlit: Wants to talk about problems you might enounter. Some people might only want to moderate to get closer. Some people can be ultra-competitive and get jealous. Encourages people who are interested  to be business savvy and to try their best. Think about what is worth it to you.
- Tips and advice for if you want to do this kind of content
	- Starlit:
		- Try dual streaming, like on fansly and chaturbate, to grow
		- Be open to feedback from other professionals, animators, etc
		- Don't take yourself too seriously. Be willing to laugh at yourself. People like authenticity.
		- When doing collaborations, talk about boundaries beforehand
	- ZAVVY
		- Protect your privacy. Use separate emails and phone number. Scrub metadata. Use a VPN.
		- Know your boundaries.
		- Stay mentally grounded. Don't let people cross your boundaries. Take breaks.
		- Block and ban liberally. It doesn't matter if they are breaking a rule.
	- YanderEgg
		- No one owns your voice, your voice is unique.
		- Don't be afraid to shout. It can work in ASMR.
		- Post your content on different platforms, outside of the ones you use to stream.
		- Be prepared to try over and over again. If you keep trying new, different things, and you try things others are not doing, you can make it.
- Q&A
	- What is the most unusual thing you've done either in recording or stream?
		- Yanderegg: Five Nights at Freddies ASMR (unsure, didn't hear well?)
		- Starlit: When i tried to use a dildo upsidown
		- ZAVVY: Doing BJ sound content after preparing for the hot chip challenge but backing out, resulting in doing the hot chip challenge while making the content. Never do Fansly before Twitch because you might forget that something is still connected.
	- Advice for mic settings, hardware, and scriptwriting?
		- YanderEgg: Rhode condensor mic is a good starter mic. Focusrite is good as well. Watch shows you like for script ideas. 1,000 words is about 20m of runtime.
		- Starlit: Most important thing is to start. You can use bad hardware and work up.
	- With terms of servuce constantly changing what is or is not allowed, how do you choose which platforms to upload to?
		- ZAVVY: Check the Twitch TOS every week. Fansly is more lax, so that isnt needed as much there. Don't go as far as you think you can go.
	- What do NSFW VTubers look for in managers compared to SFW VTubers
		- Starlit: It isn't much different. You need someone to manage your content, help strategize, and work with your personality. You don't want someone who tried to put you in a "one-size-fits-all" plan. Find someone professional. Never hire your friends. Just need to ask if they will do NSFW content.
	- What are some tips and tricks for sound effects like panting and moaning? Without laughing at yourself?
		- YanderEgg: You have to work through the cringe. There is some cringe content that you make sometimes.
		- Starlit: It's part of my brand. I leave the laughter in.
	- What is the most embarrassing moment you had during recording?
		- YanderEgg: My landlord heard it.
		- Starlit: Got a note from a neighbor that they were too loud.
		- ZAVVY: Could hear a roommate eating chips in the recording.
	- What are your favorite adult games?
		- ZAVVY: Latex Dungeon
		- YanderEgg: Price of Flesh
		- Starlit: Shady's LewdCard (unsure, couldn't hear well)
