---
created: 2025-06-20T22:11:30Z
---

At OffKai, Panel 4
How YOU Can Edit VTuber Content
https://www.offkaiexpo.com/event/how-you-can-edit-vtuber-content/

- Title slide reads "How To Edit For VTubers or Yourself"
- Presented by:
	- @sonotseth, uses Davinci
	- @7thLargestShad, uses Davinci
	- SunWon, @SnshnWngstr, uses Adobe Premier
	- @hawupup, uses Davinci Resolve
- Basic fundamentals:
	- There are ethical responsibilities for editors
	- Thumbnail and title should be truthful
	- Clickbaiting makes the community distrustful of you
	- Use appropriate, respectful titles and thumbnails
	- Respectful to the creator and community
	- Respects the creator's wishes
	- Understand what kind of modifications can be made to the avatar in thumbnails
	- Don't clip vulnerable moments, sensitive content (like dox information), paywalled content, or slanderous content
	- Clip entertainment, stories, informative, announcements
	- Upload after the stream, not during. wait until the stream is uploaded so the full stream doesnt encounter automatic copy protection issues
	- Check to see if streamer has policy for clip uploads
	- Make clips because you want to, not for validation or that you can become friends with the streamer.
	- Being a clipper/editor doesn't make you better than other fans.
	- Compare to improve, not to put yourself down.
- Editing structure: workflow for editing
	- 1. Extract clip
	- 2. Determine landscape or short form
	- 3. Make a thumbnail
	- 4. Pick a catchy, appreciable title
	- 5. Credit the streamer
	- free clip downloaders: ytdlp or ​twitch downloader
	- free editing software: capcut or davinci
	- find your editing style (png animations, sound effects, memes, cuts and zooms, subtitle) you do not need to be perfect
	- focus more on posting instead of making it perfect, so you can keep learning and getting better
	- consider changing the format to suit the social media platform you are uploading to
	- vtuber discords tend to have dedicated clipping channels
- Finding work: Portfolio, networking, and professionalism
	- 1. Build up a portfolio
		- Use ytjobs or carrd
		- Set up rates, terms of service
		- make an editing reel
		- put yourself out there
	- 2. Networking
		- Meet people on social media
		- Loopd discord server focuses on editing
	- 3. Professionalism
		- Remember that this is a job -- you are getting paid to do video work
		- Be polite!
		- Communicate your workflow, timelines, set deadlines (and keep them!), follow the NDA
		- Be wary of taking on too many clients, unrealistic expectations, and undervaluing your work
		- You will not have constant work, you might have months where no work comes to you
		- make sure you charge what you need to be comfortable
		- Do not tie your work to specific clients, your work should stand on its own
- Resources
	- Free assets: Irasutoya, Videezy, OKUMONO, SoundeffectsLab
	- Paid assets: Adobe Stock
	- OKUMONO, Epidemic Sound
	- Free tutorials: Casey Faris (highly recommended), Peej ENT
	- Don't forget that you can reach out to any of the presenters or editors you might know. Just be respectful of their time.
- Advice:
	- Star2D2: Editing can feel overwhelming, so focus on one or two things at a time
	- Jun Mitsui: Be more open to connecting with like-minded editors and dont stretch yourself too thin.
	- OrangeHenge: Don't chase numbers and trends. Focus on what you enjoy the most and add your own unique touch to it.
	- They will post this presentation and more advice on social media.
- QA
	- What do you do to get out of burnout?
		- Focus on what you like the most about editing. Do less videos, focus more on creative work.
		- Find something to do that is separated from editing, like a hobby, music, or walking.
		- Find a better balance with the work itself. Take on different kinds of work, keep doing a variety of things.
		- Find what works for you. Burnout is more common than you think with editing.
	- Do you give yourself deadlines regardless of what deadline you have been given?
		- Yes, setting a deadline yourself so you can have days reserved for yourself where you don't do any work (like weekends)
		- Use a speedrun timer during work to help focus and know how much time passes
		- Know how much time it takes for you to make something and try to make it consistent. For example, it might take you 5 hours to make a short form short and you might need to figure out what is taking up your time if it takes longer than that.
	- How to do editing when you are doing it for yourself? What do you do during stream? How do you find good clips?
		- Focus on posting consistently; algorithms eat that up.
		- Mark timestamps while you are streaming
		- Fugi has a tool called autoclip. it is shutting down, but there's an open source version. It shows you when chat was activr and that can help you find good moments to clip.
	- How do you develop a good eye for good moments to clip?
		- It depends on what you want to put out there. You could keep in mind trends that people are talking about
		- Think about what moments you enjoy, like ehen the streamer tells a story or explains something. Know your preferences. Each editor has their own lens. Editing is an art.
	- Where should I find content to edit? How do I get into editing?
		- Find a streamer you like. Look for moments that you like, things that make you laugh. They don't have to be amazing; you can still share it.
		- You can get a lot out of good pacing and trimming. You don't need a lot of fancy effects.
		- On twitch it can be as simple as pressing the clip button.
	- Who is your favorite editor?
		- There are so many editors and different styles that it is hard to pick.
	- What do you think of Sony Vegas?
		- If you can make your work in it, it's fine. Some people have made great work in a web browser editor.
	- Of all the time you've spent editing, what are you most proud of?
		- Learning how to use the fusion page. If you can use it, you are unstoppable
		- Had the honor of making the closing video for a graduating vtuber.
		- Whenever I am able to take things to the next level.
