---
created: 2025-07-15T10:55:28Z
---

The following note is from my "hobby" Obsidian vault that I never dated. The last modified timestamp according to the file system is `2023-08-06T22:12:42-0700` and the created timestamp is `2023-10-15 12:05:30-0700`, but this is on a computer the file was synced to. So, I don't know when this note was made.

It did link to other dated entries, which I've gone ahead and linked in this note.

---

# បាញ់ឆែវ (Num Banh Chao)

A savory crepe from Cambodian Cuisine.

# Recipe

**Vegetables** (optional, eat these with the pancake):
* Lettuce
* Cucumber

**Sauce** (this can be prepared in advance and kept in the fridge for months):
* Either:
	* 1/2 cup brown sugar
	* 3 tsp salt
	* 3/2 cup hot water
	* 1/3 cup rice vinegar or lime juice
* Or:
	* 3/4 granulate sugar
	* 3/4 fish sauce
	* 3/2 cup water
	* 1/2 cup vinegar

**Garnish:**
* 1 clove garlic sliced thinly
* 1 tbsp finely chopped carrot

**Batter:**
* 2 cup rice flour
* 1/2 cup coconut milk
* 3 cup water
* 1 tbsp turmeric powder
* 1/4 cup chopped green onion

_This batter recipe might not have enough fat, coconut milk may need to be doubled._

**Stuffing:**
* any meat
* bean thread
* dried mushroom
* cooked split mung bean
* red or yellow onion
* bean sprouts

_Not sure what the proportions of all these ingredients should be._

**Instructions:**
1. Cook the stuffing:
	- Stir fry all of the stuffing ingredients except for the bean sprouts
	- Set aside
2. For each pancake...
	- Heat skillet and brush oil onto pan. Then, pour a thin layer on pancake batter and cover the pan for one minute
	- Place stuffing and bean sprouts on top of the batter, then fold the pancake in half to cover the stuffing.
Serve with sauce and side vegetables.

# History

- [202110311710](202110311710.md)
