---
created: 2025-08-05T21:04:12-07:00
---

Working on _no signal_ offline:
- [20250805220309](20250805220309.md)
	- [ ] Gym music is on the ambience bus, but it should be on the music bus, maybe?
	- [ ] Change cursor for interactable when using look control
	- [x] 2c rug is dark
	- [ ] Game crashes sometimes when clicking on something off the game's window, like OBS, after idling in the game after 10-15 minutes [20250805220309](20250805220309.md)
	- [x] Gamma doesn't get ~~saved~~ loaded
	- [ ] Can't interact while moving, even though mouse pointer changes
	- [ ] Billiard balls actually have textures to set the colors
	- [ ] ~~Fix clipping on bed~~ Duplicate of "Remove wall script and backfacing walls from inset bed model in bedrooms"
- [20250803161809](20250803161809.md)
	- [ ] Decal on ~~drive in storage~~ all drive bays
	- [ ] Reduce fps sensitivity
	- [ ] Send email to PC Gamer: https://www.pcgamer.com/about-pc-gamer/
	- [ ] Send email to Aftermath: https://aftermath.site/about-us-contact-us-aftermath
- [20250801235159](20250801235159.md)
	- [ ] Apply to IGF
	- [ ] Apply to Indiecade
- [20250801060211](20250801060211.md)
	- [ ] Colors are not correct on Rubix Cube
	- [x] Office decals (whiteboard and desk) are visible on back
	- [x] Medbay door cover has a decal on it (visible when gamma is high)
	- [ ] Incorrect wall clipping in activity room
- [20250731000658](20250731000658.md)
	- [ ] Fix incorrect coloring on piano when hovered over key.
	- [x] meeting-a bobby dialog is a transcript but "breath" is the wrong word.
	- [ ] The camera rubberbanding issue is back, when trying to move after setting the anchor on something. maybe I can replicate it again?
	- [ ] Application icon is broken on windows. Maybe I need a native `.ico` file?
	- [ ] Remove wall script and backfacing walls from inset bed model in bedrooms
	- [ ] Sell the sheet music for poem?
	- [x] Nook mat in activity room isn't lit underneath
	- [x] The music dialog says "All Diamonds Come From Africa" but it should be "Go Buy Diamonds From Africa"
	- [x] Letter in wordmark spins too quickly on some machines. Fix notes: [20250806070153](20250806070153.md)
	- [ ] Password prompts are is missing a sound for when they reject a player's input
	- [x] Office rugs are missing an underside
	- [ ] For some reason, the corners of the black hole skybox are darker.
	- [ ] Old wordmark still shows up in the credits of the game.
	- [x] [#62](https://git.tsuki.games/exodrifter/lost-contact/issues/62) Game freeze when accessing the EVA computer. Fix notes: [20250806063855](20250806063855.md)
	- [ ] A player reported a lighting issue in the center, where it loads in completely dark while playing a game. ~~Reloading the game fixes the issue.~~ This only happened on the user's computer once after the initial install.
