---
created: 2025-02-07T03:40:02Z
---

Watching Tanuki's playtest for _no signal_.

My tasks:
- [ ] Add tooltip telling user to press shift to slide puzzle pieces
- [ ] Fix lighting in elevator cinematic
- [ ] Add scroll bar for drive selection
- [ ] Add music to gym cd player?
- [ ] Make Naoko more kind in `meeting-a injury-2`
- [ ] Make Spirit cut Neil off in `meeting-a theories` while Neil is saying "I'm sure we'll figure something out". Spirit and Neil should be more at odds with each other.
- [ ] Reduce volume on drawer sounds in medical room
- [ ] Can't open door in medical room
- [ ] Add pillows to chair in library
- [ ] Pillow clipping wall in activity room
- [ ] fridge door closing animation doesn't line up with audio
- [ ] Make doors in bathroom open
- [ ] Move whale fall tape to bathroom and add rhodophyta to green room?
- [ ] Clipping on bottom shelf in common storage
- [ ] Remove repetition in `activity-a hollis` dialog (Don't you ever feel lonely \[...\] it makes me feel really lonely). Maybe skip both sentences all together.
- [ ] In `activity-a hollis`, move "There's no people" line to separate paragraph
- [ ] In `activity-a hollis`, remove the sentence "We're able to imagine \[...\] with each other."
- [ ] In `activity-a hollis`, remove the sentence "You know \[...\] could be friends too."
- [ ] Add cork board with clues in meeting room
- [ ] In `1a-a gravity`, change "at the corners of the station" to "at the corners of the sections of the station"
- [ ] In `1a-a gravity`, add a sentence where spirit offers a new room to nevaeh
- [ ] Fast forwarding tapes can break when switching between tapes?
- [ ] Add compliance decal to office
- [ ] Start `1g-a try again` halfway through, at "I don't know, I'm so cynical \[...\]", cut some of spirit's examples out, cut out comments about dating apps.
- [ ] Fix lag when fuse fails in 1g
- [ ] `2c-a engine room` make bobby more joking instead of snippy by replacing "Other than \[...\] stay alive."
- [ ] Paper is configured incorrectly in `bedroom_2f`
- [ ] `2f-a security` typo, change "I'm not supported" to "I'm not supposed"
- [ ] Add blahaj to server room
- [ ] Add ambiance to green room
- [ ] Magenta color on drive bay in `storage_ring` and scale is incorrect
- [ ] Add setting to disable hint system
- [ ] Make paragraph shorter and more concise in `storage-a naoko`
- [ ] Reduce volume slightly of metal drawers in workshop
- [ ] Add ambiance to gravity backup
- [ ] Add dialog to gravity backup?
- [ ] null locale key on chess piece in `lab_energy`
- [ ] Add decal that describes the Oberth effect
- [ ] Add decoy cables to drive bays in lab_radio
- [ ] `lab_radio` binders clipping on table
- [ ] Add visual notification that holodeck is locked
- [ ] Add starfish model (see `radio-a nevaeh`)
- [ ] Make sure every room (except hallways) has a shark
- [ ] Music room is missing drive bay and dialog screen
- [ ] Add ambiance to music room
- [ ] Split sentence in `cupola-a cage-2` "your dreams \[...\] futility. you \[...\]"
- [ ] Add more clues about where neil's safe code is
- [ ] Add more clues about where naoko's computer is
- [ ] Workshop outer wall is misconfigured
- [ ] clipping on `bedroom_2e` carpet
- [ ] make a/b/c/d parameters harder to brute force
- [ ] change launch parameters to use text fields instead of number spin box
- [ ] timing is off in probe cinematic for some reason?
- [ ] freesound credits missing comma

Tanuki's tasks:
- [ ] Switch velcro mats to something more "traditional"?
- [ ] Bobby-fy `meeting-a plan`
- [ ] Make models to fill drawers in medical room
- [ ] Make models to fill drawers in workshop
- [ ] Make ovens in kitchen open-able
- [ ] Cupola is missing door
