---
created: 2025-06-03T07:39:59Z
---

I wrote [a post on t/suki about raycasting in _no signal_](https://forum.tsuki.games/t/best-way-to-handle-raycasting/233/4) that I've copied below:

---

I've been thinking about this again, because while I was finishing up development tasks for _no signal_ I soured on the recursive search strategy I originally suggested in the original post. So, I want to take some time to explain why.

I ended up finding out that I would have very many different kinds of clickable objects in my game, some of which I found could _not_ be parent nodes at all due to technical limitations, and ended up with this pair of functions in my code quite often:

```gdscript
var raycast: RayCast3D

# Find the clickable object
func find_clickable() -> Node:
	var collider: Node = raycast.get_collider()

	var parent_clickable := parent_where(
		raycast.get_collider() as Node,
		func(a: Node) -> bool:
			return \
				a is Item or \
				a is SlidingPuzzle # etc...
	)
	if is_instance_valid(parent_clickable):
		return parent_clickable

	return child_where(
		collider,
		func(a: Node) -> bool:
			return \
				a is AnimatedButton or \
				a is AnimatedDoor #etc...
	)

# Click on a clickable object
func handle_click() -> void:
	var clickable = find_clickable()
	if clickable is Item:
		pass # elided
	elif clickable is SlidingPuzzle:
		pass # elided
	elif clickable is AnimatedButton:
		pass # elided
	elif clickable is AnimatedDoor:
		pass # elided
	# etc...
```

There were two problems with this approach:
- I needed to manually make sure that `find_clickable` and `handle_click` were always in sync. Sometimes I would miss this, causing bugs that I wouldn't notice until much later.
- Since my input handling code is closely coupled with specific clickable classes and I have multiple input handlers, there were sometimes subtle differences between the different input handlers that made bugs difficult to track down.

I think it's pretty obvious here that I should have used a signal, but it's not clear to me exactly how I would set that up.

You could make the argument that I could extend the `EditorScenePostImport` class to automatically add a script which uses the collider extension pattern as mentioned above by @ColdEmber and @outfrost to every collider in every imported scene. But, this still wouldn't make it easy for me to set up because I would need to set every imported scene as editable in order to access the signal on the collider. @Titanseeker created hundreds of models for _no signal_ that I wanted to be able to drag directly into whatever scene I wanted them to be included in, so this kind of hitch in the workflow would have been unacceptable.

I also can't relay the signal to a custom script on the root node to avoid needing to mark the scene as editable because I already have a custom script on the root node that has its own separate responsibility.

Hopefully this explains why I've soured on the recursive search strategy for this after working on _no signal_. I'm not really sure what I would prefer instead, yet. Maybe collider extension would work well if I just tried it out in practice and saw how I went... or maybe there's some other secret way to handle the situation.
