---
created: 2025-06-22T18:23:12Z
---

At OffKai, Panel 3
Virtual Fashion Design
https://www.offkaiexpo.com/event/virtual-fashion-design/

- Presented by MikanVT (MikanTheCapybara)
	- Been streaming for 5 years, currently fulltime
- Felt detached from their design, and got into character design to feel more connected. They wanted a new look!
- Looked like their old outfit could be bought on Amazon; didn't want their drip to look so affordable.
- Wanted an outfit that resembled a capybara.
- Process:
	- Theme: Try to narrow it down to three themes/word
	- Idea: Decide on outfit elements. Think of it like if you get invited to a wedding, or going swimming, or what season it might be. Consider the context for the outfit.
	- Color
- Make something that makes you happy! Be anything you want!
- Color:
	- Neutral colors like white, black, and gray look good with a lot of other colors
	- Silver or gold? Maybe both. Silver tends to be the cool color, gold tends to be warm. These colors are usually used for accessories.
	- Cool vs warm
	- Pick colors you like
	- 3 colors is a good amount
- Details
	- You can use asymmetry or symmetry, as long as you balance things. Small asymmetrical details can add a lot!
	- Add accessories like hairclips, belts, symbols, bags, plushies, etc
	- If it feels like something is missing, try adding something!
- Example:
	- Lily, first design, it's why Mikan does character design
		- Themes: Lily of the Valley (it is a flower), Fox, Maid
		- Floral and bell shaped
		- Neutral colors plus greens
		- Gold bells and eyes
		- socks are asymmetrical, but shoes and dress are symmetrical
	- OffKai's Sam-Joe
		- Colors: Purple and red, neutral colors, a bit of a neutral/cool tone on accessories like white and silver
		- Hair does not need to match the overall clothing. Think of it like how you might change your clothes in real life regardless of what hair you have.
		- Asymmetrical eyes, hapi coat, socks
		- Symmetrical shoes, shirt, and shorts.
		- Themes: Racing, Neon, Summer
	- Made an outfit for Sam-Joe
		- Bright and sporty fashion
		- Race-queen style outfit
		- Did neutral colors first
		- Not every single piece needs to be the same color. A lot of people wear black pants and black shoes
		- If it looks too busy, use the same neutral colors
- Conclusion
	- It is okay to be inspired, but try to find a way to stand out
	- Pick a few ideas you like
	- After having an idea, you can start shaping the character or outfit.
	- If an idea doesn't fit, save it for other situations like alternate universes, other outfits, or seasonal events.
	- Even if you cannot draw, these ideas will help an artist know more about what you are looking for.
