---
created: 2025-05-16T09:51:10Z
---

My neck has been hurting quite a bit because I'm primarily working on my laptop now and I don't have any of the typical monitors I would usually use, since they're in storage after my recent move. I did some research yesterday on different laptop stands, and I found the following two options that I liked:

- [mBar pro+](https://raindesigninc.com/products/mbarproplus) by raindesign ($64.90 USD)
- [Curve Flex](https://www.twelvesouth.com/products/curve-flex-for-macbook) by twelve south ($79.99 USD)

Primarily, I wanted to optimize for both portability, lightness, and adjustability (in that order). While both were portable, I wasn't really satisfied with either option. The mBar pro+ was light (0.45 lbs or 205 grams) but wasn't adjustable while the Curve Flex was adjustable, but wasn't light (1.75lb or 794g).

I asked a friend who I knew uses such a product and they recommended the [Roost V3 laptop stand](https://www.therooststand.com/products/roost-v3-roost-laptop-stand) from Roost Industries Corp. It's both portable _and_ adjustable, while somehow still managing to be lighter than the previous two options I considered weighing in at only 178g. It was a bit more expensive at $89.95, but I decided to spring for one. I received mine today and it appears to be well built; it's sturdy and stable. It was also very easy to set up and adjust. Frankly, it works great and I'm already quite happy with it, though we'll see how it holds up after I use it for a while.

The Roost comes with a removable tab which describes the recommended configuration number to use based on your height. It's not a specific recommendation, as it displays the numbers 1 through 7 with the recommended values between the numbers; 5'2" is between the numbers 1 and 2 while 6'0" is between the numbers 6 and 7. The only other enumerated recommended value is 5'7" which is next to the number 4. Since 5'7" is close enough to my height, I decided to use that value and it seems to work fine.

A visual representation of the removable tab:

```
7   ↑
   6'0" (183 cm)
6   │
    │
5   │
    │
4  5'7" (170 cm)
    │
3   │
    │
2   │
   5'2" (157 cm)
1   ↓
```

As an aside, it was a little difficult to find the name of the company that makes this product. The website just shows the name "Roost", but the packing slip and the Amazon store page for the company both mention the company's name as "Roost Industries Corp.", which I assume is short for Roost Industries Corporation.
