---
created: 2025-08-06T10:17:18-07:00
---

Working on _no signal_ on stream today, just doing more bugfixes.

Copied TODOS from [20250806040412](20250806040412.md):
- [x] Velcro mat in EVA is fake but should be real but also not real because pgeist
- [x] Gym music is on the ambience bus, but it should be on the music bus, maybe?
- [x] Change cursor for interactable when using look control
- [ ] Game crashes sometimes when clicking on something off the game's window, like OBS, after idling in the game after 10-15 minutes [20250805220309](20250805220309.md)
- [ ] ~~Can't interact while moving, even though mouse pointer changes~~ You can in fact interact while moving, but this opens a menu for most items and you can always move to exit an item. We could try disallowing movement until the player presses the movement key again, but this adds a lot of complexity for little benefit (since the movement is keyed directly into changing ui selection too).
- [x] Decal on all drive bays
- [x] Reduce fps sensitivity
- [x] Incorrect wall clipping in activity room
- [ ] ~~Fix incorrect coloring on piano when hovered over key.~~ This seems to be a lighting/normals issue, but I also think it looks okay anyway so I probably won't fix this.
- [x] The camera rubberbanding issue is back, when trying to move after setting the anchor on something. maybe I can replicate it again?
- [x] Application icon is broken on windows. Maybe I need a native `.ico` file?
- [x] Password prompts are is missing a sound for when they reject a player's input
- [ ] For some reason, the corners of the black hole skybox are darker.
- [ ] Old wordmark still shows up in the credits of the game.
- [ ] A player reported a lighting issue in the center, where it loads in completely dark while playing a game. This only happened on the user's computer once after the initial install.

Tanuki stuff:
- [ ] Colors are not correct on Rubix Cube
- [ ] Billiard balls actually have textures to set the colors
- [ ] Remove wall script and backfacing walls from inset bed model in bedrooms

Marketing stuff:
- [ ] Post 1 week retrospective on Patreon and Ko-fi
- [ ] Send email to PC Gamer: https://www.pcgamer.com/about-pc-gamer/
- [ ] Send email to Aftermath: https://aftermath.site/about-us-contact-us-aftermath
- [ ] Apply to IGF
- [ ] Apply to Indiecade
- [ ] Sell the sheet music for poem?
