---
created: 2025-07-19T13:42:30-07:00
---

At OpenSauce 2025, Second Hall for "Could AI Make This Panel?"
- Writing phrases the some of the speakers responded with. There are several people on the panel, but I don't recognize anyone other than Primeagen.
- Started off by asking whether or not the speakers would use AI and if it would make them more productive.
	- Generally against using generative AI to do creative work
	- AI should be used to automate the tedious work, like lipsyncing and rotoscoping in animation.
	- It's a mistake to try and replace an entire role with AI.
	- You should own and be responsible for all of your work, even if AI did that work.
	- If I'm writing a message, I'll ask for sentiment analysis and then take its feedback into account to edit the message.
- How do you decide whether or not the AI makes decisions for you or if the AI carries out decisions you've made?
	- If the AI does the work, it doesn't feel like I've done the work.
	- We've had rotoscoping assistance before AI.
	- It's really helpful to have generative images to communicate to other humans.
	- We've done some testing on AI writing scripts for videos, but it's not good enough yet. The AI does a better job when you try to provide guidance, but it's still bad.
	- Primeagen: Tried to ask ChatGPT if something they wrote is funny, but ChatGPT is not funny.
	- This could be an outcome of the output being made more safe
- Found a use for AI in code review to catch small mistakes, like when other humans are not available due to time zone differences.
	- I often use it for review, daily. I don't use the output of the review, but I take their suggestions into account.
	- AI code review used to not have enough short-term memory, and it's starting to get good at that.
	- We will have jobs indefinitely because they cannot carry out the entire work end to end.
	- AI seems good at assisting after the work is done, like spell check.
- Has anyone has surprising experience with AI recently?
	- Video generation has been spooky. It's starting to get difficult to tell whether or not a video is genuine.
	- You can follow the process and decisions a human does to deconstruct their work and understand and criticise it, but I cannot do that with AI.
	- The barrier of entry for producing fake pictures and videos is so much lower now, resulting in much more misinformation.
	- Live in-person events will start to get popular again because the value of virtual experiences is lowered.
- People are asking for summaries or reviews for things, HostFresh found that it causes people to go for bad products and services.

My thoughts:
- I found the responses of some on the panel cursed, particularly when it came to using AI to assist in communicating with other humans.
- No one mentioned the ironies of automation paper or any related concepts, which is too bad.
