---
created: 2025-03-07T17:09:55Z
---

Found out last night that `Array.reduce` in Godot 4.4 does not work the way I would have expected coming from a functional programming background.

I wanted to write a function which would fold over a list and return best suitable match based on some criteria or `null` if none of those results were appropriate. However, I found that when I used `reduce`, it would keep picking an inappropriate result (which happened to be at the front of the list).

According to the documentation for [`reduce`](https://docs.godotengine.org/en/4.4/classes/class_array.html#class-array-method-reduce), this is because of how the `accum` parameter works:

> The method takes two arguments: the current value of `accum` and the current array element. If `accum` is `null` (as by default), the iteration will start from the second element, with the first one used as initial value of `accum`.

Which means that even though `reduce` has the same type signature as `foldl`, if `accum` happens to be null it turns into what would be a `foldl1` in Haskell. The solution was to use a `for` loop instead.

A chatter `Reaganomicon` mentioned that JavaScript, F#, and Python's `functools` also implement reduce in the same way.

JavaScript does implement [`reduce`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/reduce) in a similar way:

> The value resulting from the previous call to `callbackFn`. On the first call, its value is `initialValue` if the latter is specified; otherwise its value is `array[0]`.

But, if you call `reduce` with `null` or `undefined`, the function works correctly (at least in Firefox 136.0):

> ```js
> console.log([1].reduce((acc, v) => null, null))
> console.log([1].reduce((acc, v) => null, undefined))
> console.log([1].reduce((acc, v) => null))
> ```
> Prints:
> ```
> null
> null
> 1
> ```

This is probably because JavaScript functions can check how many arguments a user defined even if one of those arguments is undefined.

F# also [does it correctly](https://fsharp.github.io/fsharp-core-docs/reference/fsharp-collections-arraymodule.html#reduce) as it has both `Array.fold folder state array` and `Array.reduce reduction array` (which have the same type signatures as `foldl` and `foldl1` respectively in Haskell)

And it turns out that `functools` in Python 3 also implements [`reduce`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/functools.html#functools.reduce) correctly:

> ```py
> import functools
>
> print(functools.reduce(lambda x, y: None, [1], None))
> 
> print(functools.reduce(lambda x, y: None, [], 1))
> ```
> Prints:
> ```
> None
> 1
> ```
