The 2K digital remastering of [Stalker (1979)](../notes/stalker.md) by [Mosfilm](../notes/stalker.md) that I checked out from the library also included an insert which contains an article written by Mark Le Fanu titled "Stalker: Meaning and Making". This article is also available on [The Criterion Collection's](../notes/the-criterion-collection.md) website [here](https://www.criterion.com/current/posts/4739-stalker-meaning-and-making). I'm guessing this Bluray was distributed by Criterion.

After reading it, here are the things that I think are notable to me:

_[Stalker](../notes/stalker.md)_ is [Tarkovsky's](../notes/andrei-tarkovsky.md) second attempt after _[Solaris](../notes/solaris.md)_ at making a science-fiction film and is the last film that he made in the Soviet Union. It is a loose adaptation of the novel _[Roadside Picnic](../notes/roadside-picnic.md)_ by the Strugatsky brothers, [Arkady](../notes/arkady-strugatsky.md) and [Boris](../notes/boris-strugatsky.md).

While working on the film, [Tarkovsky's](../notes/andrei-tarkovsky.md) life and the production of [Stalker](../notes/stalker.md) appeared to be troubled and chaotic. He was, as was typical for him, working on many other projects at the same time and was considering adapting _[The Idiot](../notes/the-idiot.md)_ (by [Fyodor Dostoevsky](../notes/fyodor-dostoevsky.md), I assume) and _[The Death of Ivan Ilych](../notes/the-death-of-ivan-ilych)_ by [Leo Tolstoy](../notes/leo-tolstoy) (these books likely influenced the making of Stalker). He was struggling to get a decent viewing for a previous autobiographical film he made called _[The Mirror](../notes/the-mirror.md)_ after it was only granted a limited domestic release. He simultaneously wanted to leave the USSR for good, yet he also bought a place to live in Myasnoy. The shooting of the film seemed to never end as the first shoot broke down after three months, the cameraman was replaced twice, and when the film was damaged it had to be entirely reshot. The people working on the film also endured toxic, inhospitable conditions on set for months on end as a result of industrial waste, which likely led to many of them having their life cut short from cancer. He even considered giving up on filmmaking in order to make a career in theater -- and he did indeed put on a theater production of Hamlet at Moscow's Lenkom Theatre in 1977.
